<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <title>The Singing, Soaring Lark<link href="xsltstyle.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/></title>
   </head>
   <body>
      <h1>The Singing, Soaring Lark</h1>
      <section>
         <p>There was once upon a time a man who was about to set out on a long
            journey, and on parting he asked his three daughters what he should
            bring back with him for them.  Whereupon the <span class="adj">eldest</span> wished for
            pearls, the second wished for diamonds, but the third said, <span class="quote"><q>dear
                  father, I should like a singing, soaring lark.</q></span>  The father said, <span class="quote"><q>yes,
                  if I can get it, you shall have it,</q></span> kissed all three, and set out.</p>
         <p>Now when the time had come for him to be on his way home again, he
            had brought pearls and diamonds for the two eldest, but he had sought
            everywhere in vain for a singing, soaring lark for the <span class="char" depiction="innocent" age="young" char_type="nonphysical" gender="female">,youngest and
               he was very unhappy about it, for she was his favorite child.</span>  
            Then his road lay through a forest, and in the midst of it was a splendid
            castle, and near the castle stood a tree, but quite on the top of the
            tree, he saw a singing, soaring lark.  <span class="quote"><q>Aha, you come just at the
                  right moment,</q></span> he said, quite delighted, and called to his servant to
            climb up and catch the little creature.</p>
         <p>But as he approached the tree, a lion leapt from beneath it, shook
            himself, and roared till the leaves on the trees trembled.  <span class="quote"><q>He who
                  tries to steal my singing, soaring lark, he cried, will I devour.</q></span>
            Then the man said, <span class="quote"><q>I did not know that the bird belonged to you.  I
                  will make amends for the wrong I have done and ransom myself with a
                  large sum of money, only spare my life.</q></span> The lion said, <span class="quote"><q>nothing can
                  save you, unless you will promise to give me for my own what first
                  meets you on your return home, and if you will do that, I will grant
                  you your life, <span class="auto" auto_type="controlled" gender="female">and you shall have the bird for your daughter,</span> into
                  the bargain.</q></span>  But the man hesitated and said, <span class="quote"><q>that might be my
                  <span class="char" depiction="innocent" age="young" char_type="nonphysical" gender="female">youngest daughter, she loves me best,</span> and always runs to meet me on
                  my return home.</q></span></p>
         <p>The servant, however, was terrified and said, <span class="quote"><q>why should your
                  daughter be the very one to meet you, it might as easily be a cat, or
                  dog.</q></span> Then the man allowed himself to be persuaded, took the singing,
            soaring lark, and promised to give the lion whatsoever should first
            meet him on his return home.</p>
         <p>When he reached home and entered his house, the first who met him was
            no other than his <span class="char" depiction="innocent" age="young" char_type="nonphysical" gender="female"> youngest and dearest daughter, who came running up,
               kissed and embraced him, and when she saw that he had brought with
               him a singing, soaring lark, she was beside herself with joy.</span>  The
            father, however, could not rejoice, but began to weep, and said, <span class="quote"><q>my
                  dearest child, I have bought the little bird dear.  In return for it,
                  <span class="auto" auto_type="controlled" gender="female">I have been obliged to promise you to a savage lion, and when he has
                     you he will tear you in pieces and devour you,</span></q></span> and he told her all,
            just as it had happened, and begged her not to go there, come what
            might.</p>
         <p><span class="auto" level="heroine" auto_type="free" gender="female">But she consoled him and said, <span class="quote"><q>dearest father, indeed your promise
                     must be fulfilled.  I will go thither and soften the lion, so that I
                     may return to you safely.</q></span> <span class="char" depiction="brave" char_type="nonphysical" gender="female"> Next morning she had the road pointed out
                  to her, took leave, and went fearlessly</span> out into the forest.</span>  The
            lion, however, was an enchanted prince and was by day a lion, and all
            his people were lions with him, but in the night they resumed their
            natural human shapes.</p>
         <p>On her arrival she was kindly received and led into the castle.  When
            night came, the lion turned into a handsome man, and their wedding
            was celebrated with great magnificence.  They lived happily together,
            remained awake at night, and slept in the daytime.  One day he came
            and said, <span class="quote"><q>to-morrow there is a feast in your father's house, because
                  your eldest sister is to be married, and if you are inclined to go
                  there, my lions shall conduct you.</q></span> <span class="auto" auto_type="free" gender="female"> She said, <span class="quote"><q>yes, I should very much
                     like to see my father again,</q></span> and went thither, accompanied by the
               lions. </span></p>
         <p>There was great joy when she arrived, for they had all believed that
            she had been torn in pieces by the lion, and had long ceased to live.
            But she told them what a handsome husband she had, and how well off
            she was, remained with them while the wedding-feast lasted, and then
            <span class="auto" auto_type="free" gender="female"> went back again to the forest.</span></p>
         <p>When the second daughter was about to be married, and she was again
            invited to the wedding, she said to the lion, <span class="quote"><q><span class="auto" auto_type="free" gender="female"> this time I will not be
                     alone, you must come with me.</span></q></span>  The lion, however, said that it was
            too dangerous for him, for if when there a ray from a burning candle
            fell on him, he would be changed into a dove, and for seven years
            long would have to fly about with the doves.  She said, <span class="quote"><q>ah, but do
                  come with me, I will take great care of you, and guard you from all
                  light.</q></span>  <span class="auto" level="societal_expectations" auto_type="free"> So they went away together, and took with them their little
               child as well.</span></p>
         <p><span class="auto" auto_type="free" gender="female">She had a room built there,</span> so strong and thick that no ray could
            pierce through it, in this he was to shut himself up when the candles
            were lit for the wedding-feast.  But the door was made of green wood
            which warped and left a little crack which no one noticed.  The
            wedding was celebrated with magnificence, but when the procession
            with all its candles and torches came back from church, and passed by
            this apartment, a ray touched him, he was transformed in an instant,
            and when she came in and looked for him, she did not see him, but a
            white dove was sitting there.  The dove said to her, for seven years
            must I fly about the world, but at every seventh step that you take I
            will let fall a <span class="rep" rep_type="menstruation">drop of red blood</span> and a white feather, and these will
            show you the way, and if you follow the trace you can release me.
            Thereupon the dove flew out at the door,<span class="auto" auto_type="controlled" gender="female"> and she followed him, and at
               every seventh step a <span class="rep" rep_type="menstruation">red drop of blood</span> and a little white feather
               fell down and showed her the way.</span></p>
         <p><span class="auto" level="heroine" auto_type="controlled" gender="female">So she went continually further and further in the wide world, never
               looking about her or resting,</span> and the seven years were almost past,
            then she rejoiced and thought that they would soon be saved, and yet
            they were so far from it.  Once when they were thus moving onwards,
            no little feather and <span class="rep" rep_type="menstruation">no drop of red blood fell</span>, and when she raised
            her eyes the dove had disappeared. <span class="auto" level="heroine" auto_type="free" gender="female">And as she thought to herself, in
               this no man can help you, she climbed up to the sun, and said to him,
               <span class="quote"><q>you shine into every crevice, and over every peak, have you not seen
                     a white dove flying.</q></span></span></p>
         <p><span class="quote"><q>No,</q></span> said the sun, <span class="quote"><q>I have seen none, but I present you with a casket,
                  open it when you are in sorest need.</q></span>  <span class="auto" auto_type="free" gender="female">Then she thanked the sun, and
               went on until evening came and the moon appeared, she then asked her,
               <span class="quote"><q>you shine the whole night through, and on every field and forest,
                     have you not seen a white dove flying.</q></span></span></p>
         <p><span class="quote"><q>No,</q></span> said the moon, <span class="quote"><q>I have seen no dove, but here I give you an egg,
                  break it when you are in great need.</q></span>  <span class="auto" auto_type="free" gender="female">She thanked the moon, and went
               on until the night wind came up and blew on her, then she said to it,
               <span class="quote"><q>you blow over every tree and under every leaf, have you not seen a
                     white dove flying.</q></span></span>  <span class="quote"><q>No,</q></span> said the night wind, <span class="quote"><q>I have seen none, but I
                  will ask the three other winds, perhaps they have seen it.</q></span></p>
         <p>The east wind and the west wind came, and had seen nothing, but the
            south wind said, <span class="quote"><q>I have seen the white dove, it has flown to the red
                  sea, where it has become a lion again, for the seven years are over,
                  and the lion is there fighting with a dragon, the dragon, however, is
                  an enchanted princess.</q></span>  The night wind then said to her, <span class="quote"><q>I will
                  advise you, go to the red sea, on the right bank are some tall reeds,
                  count them, break off the eleventh, and strike the dragon with it,
                  then the lion will be able to subdue it, and both then will regain
                  their human form.  After that, look round and you will see the
                  griffin which is by the red sea, swing yourself, with your beloved,
                  on to his back, and the bird will carry you over the sea to your own
                  home.  Here is a nut for you, when you are above the center of the
                  sea, let the nut fall, it will immediately shoot up, and a tall
                  nut-tree will grow out of the water on which the griffin may rest,
                  for if he cannot rest, he will not be strong enough to carry you
                  across, and if you forget to throw down the nut, he will let you fall
                  into the sea.</q></span></p>
         <p><span class="auto" auto_type="controlled" gender="female">Then she went thither, and found everything as the night wind had
               said.</span>  She counted the reeds by the sea, and cut off the eleventh,
            struck the dragon therewith, whereupon the lion conquered it, and
            immediately both of them regained their human shapes.  But when the
            princess, who hitherto had been the dragon, was released from
            enchantment, <span class="auto" level="evil" auto_type="free" gender="female">she took the youth by the arm, seated herself on the
               griffin, and carried him off with her.</span></p>
         <p>There stood the <span class="char" depiction="emotional" char_type="nonphysical" gender="female">poor maiden who had wandered so far and was again
               forsaken.  She sat down and cried,</span> but at last she took courage and
            said, <span class="quote"><q>still I will go as far as the wind blows and as long as the
                  cock crows, until I find him,</q></span> <span class="auto" auto_type="free" gender="female">and she went forth by long, long roads,
               until at last she came to the castle where both of them were living
               together,</span> there she heard that soon a feast was to be held, in which
            they would celebrate their wedding, but she said, <span class="auto" auto_type="controlled" gender="female"> <span class="quote"><q>God still helps me,</q></span>
               and opened the casket that the sun had given her. A dress lay
               therein as brilliant as the sun itself.  So she took it out and put
               it on, and went up into the castle,</span> and everyone, even the bride
            herself, looked at her with astonishment.</p>
         <p>The dress pleased the bride so well that she thought it might do for
            her wedding-dress, and asked if it was for sale.  <span class="auto" auto_type="free" gender="female"><span class="quote"><q>Not for money or
                     land,</q></span> answered she, <span class="quote"><q>but for flesh and blood.</q></span>  The bride asked her
               what she meant by that, so she said, <span class="quote"><q>let me sleep a night in the
                     chamber where the bridegroom sleeps.</q></span></span>  The bride would not, yet wanted
            very much to have the dress, at last she consented, but the page was
            to give the prince a sleeping-draught.</p>
         <p>When it was night, therefore, and the youth was already asleep, she
            was led into the chamber, she seated herself on the bed and said, <span class="auto" auto_type="controlled" gender="female"><span class="quote"><q>I
                     have followed after you for seven years.  I have been to the sun and
                     the moon, and the four winds, and have enquired for you, and have
                     helped you against the dragon, will you, then quite forget me.</q></span></span>  But
            the prince slept so soundly that it only seemed to him as if the wind
            were whistling outside in the fir-trees.</p>
         <p>When therefore day broke, she was led out again, and had to give up
            the golden dress. <span class="char" depiction="emotional" char_type="nonphysical" gender="female">And as that even had been of no avail, she was
               sad, went out into a meadow, sat down there, and wept.</span>  <span class="auto" auto_type="free" gender="female">While she was
               sitting there, she thought of the egg which the moon had given her,
               she opened it,</span> and there came out a clucking hen with twelve chickens
            all of gold, and they ran about chirping, and crept again under the
            old hen's wings, nothing more beautiful was ever seen in the world.
            Then she arose, and drove them through the meadow before her, until
            the bride looked out of the window.</p>
         <p>The little chickens pleased her so much that she immediately came
            down and asked if they were for sale.  <span class="auto" auto_type="free" gender="female"><span class="quote"><q>Not for money or land, but for
                     flesh and blood, let me sleep another night in the chamber where the
                     bridegroom sleeps.</q></span></span>  The bride said, yes, <span class="auto" level="evil" auto_type="free" gender="female">intending to cheat her as on
               the former evening.</span>  But when the prince went to bed he asked the
            page what the murmuring and rustling in the night had been.  On this
            the page told all, that he had been forced to give him a
            sleeping-draught, because a poor girl had slept secretly in the
            chamber, and that he was to give him another that night.  The prince
            said, <span class="quote"><q>pour out the draught by the bed-side.</q></span></p>
         <p>At night, she was again led in, and when she began to relate how ill
            all had fared with her, he immediately recognized his <span class="adj">beloved</span> wife by
            her voice, sprang up and cried, <span class="quote"><q>now I really am released.  I have
                  been as it were in a dream, for the strange princess has <span class="auto" level="evil" auto_type="free">bewitched me</span>
                  so that I have been compelled to forget you, but <span class="auto" auto_type="controlled" gender="male">God has delivered me
                     from the spell at the right time.</span></q></span></p>
         <p><span class="auto" auto_type="controlled">Then they both left the castle secretly in the night, for they feared
               the father of the princess, who was a sorcerer, and they seated
               themselves on the griffin which bore them across the red sea, and
               when they were in the midst of it, she let fall the nut.  Immediately
               a tall nut-tree grew up, whereon the bird rested, and then carried
               them home,</span> where they found their child, who had grown tall and
            beautiful, and they lived thenceforth happily until their death.</p>
      </section>
   </body>
</html>