<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en">
   <head>
      <title>Beauty and the Beast</title>
      <ol>
         <li><a href="folklore_index.xhtml">Home</a></li>
         <li><a href="methodologies.xhtml">Methodologies</a></li>
         <li><a href="texts.xhtml">Texts</a></li>
         <li><a href="analysis.xhtml">Analysis</a></li>
         <li><a href="folklore_histories.xhtml">The Histories</a></li>
      </ol>
      <title>Nav Bar for Grimm and Original Fairytales (respectively)</title>
      <ol>
         <li><a href="littlebriarrose.xhtml">Little Briar Rose (Sleeping Beauty)</a></li>
         <li><a href="rapunzel6.xhtml">Rapunzel</a></li>
         <li><a href="snowwhite_grimm.xhtml">Little Snow-White (Snow White)</a></li>
         <li><a href="singingsoaring.xhtml">The Singing Sprining Lark(Beauty and the Beast)</a></li>
         <li><a href="redridingfirst.xhtml">Little Red-Cap (Red Riding Hood)</a></li>
      </ol>
      <ol>
         <li><a href="thesleepingbeautyinthewood.xhtml">The Sleeping Beauty in the Wood (Sleeping Beauty)</a></li>
         <li><a href="petrosinella2.xhtml">Petrosinella (Rapunzel)</a></li>
         <li><a href="snowwhite_original.xhtml">The Young Slave (Snow White)</a></li>
         <li><a href="beautyandbeast.xhtml">Beauty and the Beast</a></li>
         <li><a href="redriding_frenchadaptation.xhtml">Little Red Riding Hood (Red Riding Hood)</a></li>
      </ol>
      <link href="xsltstyle.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/><script src="folklore_script.js"></script><title>Toggable List of Elements and Attributes </title>
   </head>
   <body>
      <ul id="mainList">
         <li><strong>Characteristic</strong></li>
         <div id="charSublist" class="sublist"></div>
         <ul>
            <li>Depiction</li>
            <ul>
               <li>Beauty</li>
               <li>Innocent</li>
               <li>Naivity</li>
               <li>Maternal</li>
               <li>Emotional</li>
               <li>Clever</li>
               <li>Secluded</li>
               <li>Protective</li>
               <li>Brave</li>
               <li>Domesticity</li>
            </ul>
            <li>Gender</li>
            <ul>
               <li>Female</li>
               <li>Male</li>
            </ul>
            <li>Age</li>
            <ul>
               <li>Young</li>
               <li>Old</li>
            </ul>
            <li>Char_type</li>
            <ul>
               <li>Physical</li>
               <li>Nonphysical</li>
            </ul>
         </ul>
         <li><strong>Autonomy</strong></li>
         <div id="autoSublist" class="sublist">
            <ul>
               <li>Auto_type</li>
               <ul>
                  <li>Controlled</li>
                  <li>Free</li>
               </ul>
               <li>Level</li>
               <ul>
                  <li>Male_savior</li>
                  <li>Damsel</li>
                  <li>Evil</li>
                  <li>Religious</li>
                  <li>Heroine</li>
                  <li>Societal_expectations</li>
               </ul>
               <li>Gender</li>
               <ul>
                  <li>Female</li>
                  <li>Male</li>
               </ul>
            </ul>
         </div>
         <li><strong>Villainization</strong></li>
         <div id="villSublist" class="sublist">
            <ul>
               <li>Cause</li>
               <ul>
                  <li>Competition</li>
                  <li>Jealousy</li>
                  <li>Revenge</li>
                  <li>Unspecified</li>
                  <li>Sex</li>
                  <li>Power</li>
                  <li>Manipulation</li>
               </ul>
               <li>Gender</li>
               <ul>
                  <li>Female</li>
                  <li>Male</li>
               </ul>
            </ul>
         </div>
         <li><strong>Reproduction</strong></li>
         <div id="repSublist" class="sublist">
            <ul>
               <li>Rep_type</li>
               <ul>
                  <li>Menstruation</li>
                  <li>Childbirth</li>
                  <li>Sex</li>
               </ul>
            </ul>
         </div>
         <li><strong>Adjective</strong></li>
         <div id="adjSublist" class="sublist">
            <ul>
               <li>Gender</li>
               <ul>
                  <li>Female</li>
                  <li>Male</li>
               </ul>
            </ul>
         </div>
      </ul>
      <h1>Beauty and the Beast</h1>
      <section>
         <p>There was once a <span class="adj">very rich</span> merchant, who had six children, three sons,
            and three daughters; being a man of sense, he spared no cost for their education,
            but gave them
            all kinds of masters. <span class="female">His daughters were extremely handsome, especially the youngest; when she was
               little, every body admired her, and called her _The little Beauty_; so that, as she
               grew up,
               she still went by the name of _Beauty_,</span>
            <span class="female">which made her sisters very
               jealous.</span> The youngest, as she was <span class="adj">handsome</span>, was also
            better than her sisters. <span class="female">The two eldest had a
               great deal of pride, because they were rich. <span class="female">They gave themselves ridiculous airs, and would not visit other merchants'
                  daughters, nor keep company with any but persons of quality. They went out every day
                  upon
                  parties of pleasure, because she spent the greatest part of her time in reading good
                  books.
                  As it was known that they were to have great fortunes, several eminent merchants made
                  their
                  addresses to them; but the two eldest said they would never marry, unless they could
                  meet
                  with a Duke, or an Earl at least.</span></span> Beauty <span class="female">very civilly thanked them that
               courted her, and told them she was too young yet to marry,</span> but <span class="female"> chose to stay with her father a few years
               longer.</span></p>
         <p>All at once the merchant lost his whole fortune, excepting a small country-house at
            a great
            distance from town, and told his children, with tears in his eyes, they most go there
            and work
            for their living. The two eldest answered, that <span class="female">they would not leave the town, for they had several lovers, who they were sure would
               be glad
               to have them, though they had no fortune;</span> but in this they were mistaken, for
            their lovers slighted and forsook them in their poverty. As they were not beloved
            on account of
            their pride, every body said, <span class="quote"><q>they do not deserve to be pitied, we are glad to see their
                  pride humbled, let them go and give themselves quality airs in milking the cows and
                  minding
                  their dairy. But, (added they,) we are extremely concerned for Beauty, <span class="female">she was such a charming,
                     sweet-tempered creature, spoke so kindly to poor people, and was of such an affable,
                     obliging disposition.</span></q></span> Nay, several gentlemen would have married
            her, though they knew she had not a penny; but <span class="female">she told them she could not think of leaving her poor father in
               his misfortunes, but was determined to go along with him into the country to comfort
               and
               attend him.</span> Poor Beauty at first was sadly grieved at the loss of her fortune;
            <span class="quote"><q>but, (she said to herself,) were I to cry ever so much, that would not make things
                  better, I must try to make myself happy without a fortune.</q></span> When they came to their
            country-house, the merchant and his three sons applied themselves to husbandry and
            tillage; and
            <span class="female">Beauty rose at four
               in the morning, and made haste to have the house clean, and breakfast ready for the
               family. In
               the beginning she found it very difficult, for she had not been used to work as a
               servant; but
               in less than two months she grew stronger and healthier than ever. After she had done
               her
               work, she read, played on the harpsichord, or else sung whilst she spun.</span> On the
            contrary, her two sisters did not know how to spend their time; <span class="female">they got up at ten, and did nothing but saunter about the whole
               day, lamenting the loss of their fine clothes and acquaintance.</span>
            <span class="quote"><q>Do but see our youngest sister, (said they one to the other,) <span class="female">what a poor, stupid mean-spirited creature she is, to be
                     contented with such an unhappy situation.</span></q></span> The good merchant was of
            a quite different opinion; he knew very well that Beauty out-shone her sisters, in
            her person as
            well as her mind, and admired her <span class="adj">humility, industry, and patience;</span> for
            her sisters <span class="female">not only left her all the work of
               the house to do, but insulted her every moment.</span></p>
         <p>The family had lived about a year in this retirement, when the merchant received a
            letter, with
            an account that a vessel, on board of which he had effects, was safely arrived. This
            news had
            liked to have turned the heads of the two eldest daughters, who immediately flattered
            themselves
            with the hopes of returning to town; for they were quite weary of a country life;
            and when they
            saw their father ready to set out, <span class="female">they
               begged of him to buy them new gowns, caps, rings, and all manner of trifles;</span> but
            Beauty asked for nothing, for she thought to herself, that all the money her father
            was going to
            receive would scarce be sufficient to purchase every thing her sisters wanted. <span class="quote"><q>What will
                  you have, Beauty?</q></span> said her father. <span class="female">
               <span class="quote"><q>Since you are so kind as to think of me, (answered she,) be so kind as to bring me
                     a
                     rose, for as none grow hereabouts, they are a kind of rarity.</q></span> Not that Beauty cared
               for a rose, but she asked for something, lest she should seem by her example to condemn
               her
               sisters' conduct, who would have said she did it only to look particular.</span> The good
            man went on his journey; but when he came there, they went to law with him about the
            merchandize, and after a great deal of trouble and pains to no purpose, he came back
            as poor as
            before.</p>
         <p>He was within thirty miles of his own house, thinking on the pleasure he should have
            in seeing
            his children again, when going through a large forest he lost himself. It rained and
            snowed
            terribly, besides, the wind was so high, that it threw him twice off his horse; and
            night coming
            on, he began to apprehend being either starved to death with cold and hunger, or else
            devoured
            by the wolves, whom he heard howling all around him, when, on a sudden, looking through
            a long
            walk of trees, he saw a light at some distance, and going on a little farther, perceived
            it came
            from a palace illuminated from top to bottom. The merchant <span class="male">returned God thanks for this happy discovery, and
               hasted to the palace;</span> but was greatly surprised at not meeting with anyone in the
            out-courts. His horse followed him, and seeing a large stable open, went in, and finding
            both
            hay and oats, the poor beast, who was almost famished, fell to eating very heartily.
            The
            merchant tied him up to the manger, and walked towards the house, where he saw no
            one, but
            entering into a large hall, he found a good fire, and a table plentifully set out,
            with but one
            cover laid. As he was wet quite through with the rain and snow, he drew near the fire
            to dry
            himself. <span class="quote"><q>I hope, (said he,) the master of the house, or his servants, will excuse the
                  liberty I take; I suppose it will not be long before some of them appear.</q></span></p>
         <p>He waited a considerable time, till it struck eleven, and still nobody came: at last
            he was so
            hungry that he could stay no longer, but took a chicken and ate it in two mouthfuls,
            trembling
            all the while. After this, he drank a few glasses of wine, and growing more courageous,
            he went
            out of the hall, and crossed through several grand apartments with magnificent furniture,
            till
            he came into a chamber, which had an exceeding good bed in it, and as he was very
            much fatigued,
            and it was past midnight, he concluded it was best to shut the door, and go to bed.</p>
         <p>It was ten the next morning before the merchant waked, and as he was going to rise,
            he was
            astonished to see a good suit of clothes in the room of his own, which were quite
            spoiled.
            <span class="quote"><q>Certainly, (said he,) this palace belongs to some kind fairy, who has seen and pitied
                  my distress.</q></span> He looked through a window, but instead of snow saw the most delightful
            arbours, interwoven with the most beautiful flowers that ever were beheld. He then
            returned to
            the great hall, where he had supped the night before, and found some chocolate ready
            made on a
            little table. <span class="quote"><q>Thank you, good Madam Fairy, (said he aloud,) for being so careful as to
                  provide me a breakfast; I am extremely obliged to you for all your favours.</q></span></p>
         <p>The good man drank his chocolate, and then went to look for his horse; but passing
            through an
            arbour of roses, he remembered Beauty's request to him, and gathered a branch on which
            were
            several; immediately he heard a great noise, and saw such a frightful beast coming
            towards him,
            that he was ready to faint away. <span class="quote"><q>You are very ungrateful, (said the beast to him, in a
                  terrible voice) I have saved your life by receiving you into my castle, and, in return,
                  you
                  steal my roses, which I value beyond any thing in the universe; <span class="male">but you shall die for it; I give you but a quarter of an hour to prepare
                     yourself, to say your prayers.</span></q></span> The merchant fell on his knees, and
            lifted up both his hands: <span class="quote"><q>My Lord (said he,) I beseech you to forgive me, indeed I had no
                  intention to offend in gathering a rose for one of my daughters, who desired me to
                  bring her
                  one.</q></span>
            <span class="quote"><q>My name is not My Lord, (replied the monster,) but Beast; I don't love compliments,
                  not
                  I; I like people should speak as they think; and so do not imagine I am to be moved
                  by any of
                  your flattering speeches; but you say you have got daughters; I will forgive you,
                  on condition
                  that one of them come willingly, and suffer for you. Let me have no words, but go
                  about your
                  business, and swear that if your daughter refuse to die in your stead, you will return
                  within
                  three months.</q></span> The merchant had no mind to sacrifice his daughters to the ugly monster,
            but he thought, in obtaining this respite, he should have the satisfaction of seeing
            them once
            more; so he promised upon oath, he would return, and the Beast told him he might set
            out when he
            pleased; <span class="quote"><q>but, (added he,) you shall not depart empty handed; go back to the room where
                  you lay, and you will see a great empty chest; fill it with whatever you like best,
                  and I will
                  send it to your home,</q></span> and at the same time Beast withdrew. <span class="quote"><q>Well (said the good
                  man to himself) if I must die, I shall have the comfort, at least, of leaving something
                  to my
                  poor children.</q></span></p>
         <p>He returned to the bed-chamber, and finding a great quantity of broad pieces of gold,
            he filled
            the great chest the Beast had mentioned, locked it, and afterwards took his horse
            out of the
            stable, leaving the palace with as much grief as he had entered it with joy. The horse,
            of his
            own accord, took one of the roads of the forest; and in a few hours the good man was
            at home.
            His children came around him, but, instead of receiving their embraces with pleasure,
            he looked
            on them, and, holding up the branch he had in his hands, he burst into tears. <span class="quote"><q>Here,
                  Beauty, (said he,) take these roses; but little do you think how dear they are like
                  to cost
                  your unhappy father;</q></span> and then related his fatal adventure: <span class="female">immediately the two eldest set up lamentable outcries, and
               said all manner of ill-natured things to Beauty, who did not cry at all. <span class="quote"><q>Do but see the
                     pride of that little wretch, (said they); she would not ask for fine clothes, as we
                     did; but
                     no, truly, Miss wanted to distinguish herself; so now she will be the death of our
                     poor
                     father, and yet she does not so much as shed a tear.</q></span></span>
            <span class="quote"><q>Why should I, (answered Beauty,) it would be very needless, for my father shall not
                  suffer upon my account, since the monster will accept of one of his daughters, <span class="female"> I will deliver myself up to all his fury,
                     and I am very happy in thinking that my death will save my father's life, and be a
                     proof of
                     my tender love for him.</span></q></span>
            <span class="quote"><q><span class="male">No, sister, (said her three brothers,) that
                     shall not be, we will go find the monster, and either kill him, or perish in the
                     attempt.</span></q></span>
            <span class="quote"><q>Do not imagine any such thing, my sons, (said the merchant,) Beast's power is so great,
                  that I have no hopes of your overcoming him; I am charmed with Beauty's kind and generous
                  offer, but I cannot yield to it; I am old, and have not long to live, so can only
                  lose a few
                  years, which I regret for your sakes alone, my dear children.</q></span>
            <span class="quote"><q>Indeed, father (said Beauty), you shall not go to the palace without me, you cannot
                  hinder me from following you.</q></span> It was to no purpose all they could say, <span class="female"> Beauty still insisted on setting out for the
               fine palace;</span>
            <span class="female"> and her sisters were delighted at it, for her
               virtue and amiable qualities made them envious and jealous.</span></p>
         <p>The merchant was so afflicted at the thoughts of losing his daughter, that he had
            quite forgot
            the chest full of gold; but at night, when he retired to rest, no sooner had he shut
            his
            chamber-door, than, to his great astonishment, he found it by his bedside; he was
            determined,
            however, not to tell his children that he was grown rich, because they would have
            wanted to
            return to town, and he was resolved not to leave the country; but he trusted Beauty
            with the
            secret: who informed him, that two gentlemen came in his absence, and courted her
            sisters; she
            begged her father to consent to their marriage, and give them fortunes; for she was
            so
            <span class="adj">good,</span> that she loved them, and forgave them heartily all their
            ill-usage. <span class="female">These wicked creatures rubbed
               their eyes with an onion, to force some tears when they parted with their sister;</span>
            but her brothers were really concerned. Beauty was the only one who did not shed tears
            at
            parting, because she would not increase their uneasiness.</p>
         <p>The horse took the direct road to the palace; and towards evening they perceived it
            illuminated
            as at first: the horse went of himself into the stable, and the good man and his daughter
            came
            into the great hall, where they found a table splendidly served up, and two covers.
            The merchant
            had no heart to eat; but Beauty endeavoured to appear cheerful, sat down to table,
            and helped
            him. Afterwards, thought she to herself, <span class="quote"><q>Beast surely has a mind to fatten me before he
                  eats me, since he provides such a plentiful entertainment.</q></span> When they had supped, they
            heard a great noise, and the merchant, all in tears, bid his poor child farewell,
            for he thought
            Beast was coming. Beauty was sadly terrified at his horrid form, but she took courage
            as well as
            she could, and the monster having asked her if she came willingly; <span class="quote"><q>y--e--s,</q></span> said
            she, trembling. <span class="quote"><q>You are very good, and I am greatly obliged to you; honest man, go your
                  ways tomorrow morning, but never think of returning here again. Farewell, Beauty.</q></span>
            <span class="quote"><q>Farewell, Beast,</q></span> answered she; and immediately the monster withdrew. <span class="quote"><q>Oh,
                  daughter, (said the merchant, embracing Beauty,) I am almost frightened to death;
                  believe me,
                  you had better go back, and let me stay here.</q></span>
            <span class="female"><span class="quote"><q>No, father, (said Beauty, in a
                     resolute tone,) you shall set out tomorrow morning, and leave me to the care and protection
                     of Providence.</q></span></span> They went to bed, and thought they should not close their
            eyes all night; but scarce were they laid down, than they fell fast asleep; and Beauty
            dreamed,
            a fine lady came, and said to her, <span class="quote"><q>I am content, Beauty, with your good will; this good
                  action of yours, in giving up your own life to save your father's, shall not go
                  unrewarded.</q></span> Beauty waked, and told her father her dream, and though it helped to
            comfort him a little, yet he could not help crying bitterly, when he took leave of
            his dear
            child.</p>
         <p>As soon as he was gone, <span class="female"> Beauty
               sat down in the great hall, and fell a crying likewise;</span> but as she was mistress of
            a great deal of resolution, <span class="female">she recommended herself to God, and resolved not to be uneasy the little time she
               had to
               live; for she firmly believed Beast would eat her up that night.</span></p>
         <p>
            <span class="female"> However, she thought she might as well walk
               about till then, and view this fine castle,</span> which she could not help admiring; it
            was a delightful pleasant place, and she was extremely surprised at seeing a door,
            over which
            was wrote, <span class="quote"><q>BEAUTY'S APARTMENT.</q></span> She opened it hastily, and was quite dazzled with
            the magnificence that reigned throughout; but what chiefly took up her attention,
            was a large
            library, a harpsichord, and several music books. <span class="quote"><q>Well, (said she to herself,) I see they
                  will not let my time hang heavy on my hands for want of amusement.</q></span> Then she reflected,
            <span class="quote"><q>Were I but to stay here a day, there would not have been all these
                  preparations.</q></span> This consideration inspired her with fresh courage; and opening the
            library, she took a book, and read these words in letters of gold:--</p>
         <p><span class="quote"><q>Welcome, Beauty, banish fear, You are queen and mistress here; Speak your wishes,
                  speak
                  your will, Swift obedience meets them still.</q></span></p>
         <p>
            <span class="quote"><q>Alas, (said she, with a sigh,) there is nothing I desire so much as to see my poor
                  father, and to know what he is doing.</q></span> She had no sooner said this,<span class="female">when casting her eyes on a great looking-glass, to her
               great amazement she saw her own home,</span> where her father arrived with a very dejected
            countenance; <span class="female">her sisters went to meet him, and,
               notwithstanding their endeavours to appear sorrowful, their joy, felt for having got
               rid of
               their sister, was visible in every feature: a moment after, every thing disappeared,
               and
               Beauty's apprehensions at this proof of Beast's complaisance.</span></p>
         <p>
            <span class="female"> At noon she found dinner ready,
               and while at table, was entertained with an excellent concert of music, though without
               seeing
               any body: but at night, as she was going to sit down to supper, she heard the noise
               Beast
               made; and could not help being sadly terrified.</span>
            <span class="quote"><q>Beauty, (said the monster,) will you give me leave to see you sup?</q></span>
            <span class="quote"><q>That is as you please,</q></span> answered Beauty, trembling. <span class="quote"><q>No, (replied the
                  Beast,) you alone are mistress here; you need only bid me be gone, if my presence
                  is
                  troublesome, and I will immediately withdraw: but tell me, do not you think me very
                  ugly?</q></span>
            <span class="quote"><q>That is true, (said Beauty,) for I cannot tell a lie; but I believe you are very
                  good-natured.</q></span>
            <span class="quote"><q>So I am, (said the monster,) but then, besides my ugliness, I have no sense; I know
                  very
                  well that I am a poor, silly, stupid creature.</q></span>
            <span class="quote"><q>'Tis no sign of folly to think so, (replied Beauty,) for never did fool know this,
                  or had
                  so humble a conceit of his own understanding.</q></span>
            <span class="quote"><q>Eat then, Beauty, (said the monster,) and endeavour to amuse yourself in your palace;
                  for
                  every thing here is yours, and I should be very uneasy if you were not happy.</q></span>
            <span class="quote"><q>You are very obliging, (answered Beauty;) I own I am pleased with your kindness, and
                  when
                  I consider that, your deformity scarce appears.</q></span>
            <span class="quote"><q>Yes, yes, (said the Beast,) my heart is good, but still I am a monster.</q></span>
            <span class="quote"><q>Among mankind, (says Beauty,) there are many that deserve that name more than you,
                  and I
                  prefer you, just as your are, to those, who, under a human form, hide a treacherous,
                  corrupt,
                  and ungrateful heart.</q></span>
            <span class="quote"><q>If I had sense enough, (replied the Beast,) I would make a fine compliment to thank
                  you,
                  but I am so dull, that I can only say, I am greatly obliged to you.</q></span> Beauty ate a
            hearty supper, and had almost conquered her dread of the monster; but she had liked
            to have
            fainted away, when he said to her, <span class="quote"><q>Beauty, will you be my wife?</q></span> She was some time
            before she durst answer; for she was afraid of making him angry, if she refused. <span class="female">At last, however, she said, trembling, <span class="quote"><q>No,
                     Beast.</q></span></span> Immediately the poor monster began to sigh, and hissed so
            frightfully, that the whole palace echoed. But Beauty soon recovered her fright, for
            Beast
            having said, in a mournful voice, <span class="quote"><q>then farewell, Beauty,</q></span> left the room; and only
            turned back, now and then, to look at her as he went out.</p>
         <p>When Beauty was alone, she felt a great deal of compassion for poor Beast. <span class="quote"><q>Alas, (said
                  she,) 'tis a thousand pities any thing so good-natured should be so ugly.</q></span></p>
         <p><span class="controlled">Beauty spent three months very contentedly in the palace:
               every evening Beast paid her a visit, and talked to her during supper,</span> very
            rationally, with plain good common sense, but never with what the world calls wit;
            and Beauty
            daily discovered some valuable qualifications in the monster; and seeing him often,
            had so
            accustomed her to his deformity, that, far from dreading the time of his visit, she
            would often
            look on her watch to see when it would be nine; for the Beast never missed coming
            at that hour.
            There was but one thing that gave Beauty any concern, which was, that every night,
            before she
            went to bed, the monster always asked her, if she would be his wife. <span class="female">One day she said to him, <span class="quote"><q>Beast, you make me very uneasy, I wish I
                     could consent to marry you, but I am too sincere to make you believe that will ever
                     happen:
                     I shall always esteem you as a friend; endeavour to be satisfied with
                     this.</q></span></span>
            <span class="quote"><q>I must, said the Beast, for, alas! I know too well my own misfortune; but then I love
                  you
                  with the tenderest affection: however, I ought to think myself happy that you will
                  stay here;
                  promise me never to leave me.</q></span> Beauty blushed at these words; she had seen in her
            glass, that her father had pined himself sick for the loss of her, and she longed
            to see him
            again. <span class="quote"><q>I could, (answered she), indeed promise never to leave you entirely, but I have so
                  great a desire to see my father, that I shall fret to death, if you refuse me that
                  satisfaction.</q></span>
            <span class="quote"><q>I had rather die myself, (said the monster,) than give you the least uneasiness: I
                  will
                  send you to your father, you shall remain with him, and poor Beast will die with
                  grief.</q></span>
            <span class="free"><span class="quote"><q><span class="female">No, (said Beauty, weeping,) I love you too well to be the cause of
                        your death: I give you my promise to return in a week:</span> you have shewn me
                     that my sisters are married, and my brothers gone to the army; only let me stay a
                     week with
                     my father, as he is alone.</q></span></span>
            <span class="quote"><q>You shall be there tomorrow morning, (said the Beast,) but remember your promise:
                  you
                  need only lay your ring on the table before you go to bed, when you have a mind to
                  come back:
                  farewell, Beauty.</q></span> Beast sighed as usual, bidding her good night; and Beauty went to
            bed very sad at seeing him so afflicted. When she waked the next morning, she found
            herself at
            her father's, and having rang a little bell, that was by her bed-side, she saw the
            maid come;
            who, the moment she saw her, gave a loud shriek; at which the good man ran up stairs,
            and
            thought he should have died with joy to see his dear daughter again. He held her fast
            locked in
            his arms above a quarter of an hour. As soon as the first transports were over, Beauty
            began to
            think of rising, and was afraid she had no clothes to put on; but the maid told her,
            that she
            had just found, in the next room, a large trunk full of gowns, covered with gold and
            diamonds.
            Beauty thanked good Beast for his kind care, and taking one of the plainest of them,
            she
            intended to make a present of the others to her sisters. <span class="female">She scarce had said so, when the trunk disappeared. Her father told
               her, that Beast insisted on her keeping them herself; and immediately both gowns and
               trunk
               came back again.</span></p>
         <p>Beauty dressed herself; and in the mean time they sent to her sisters, who hasted
            thither with
            their husbands. They were both of them very unhappy. The eldest had married a gentleman,
            extremely handsome indeed, but so fond of his own person, that he was full of nothing
            but his
            own dear self, and neglected his wife. The second had married a man of wit, but he
            only made use
            of it to plague and torment every body, and his wife most of all. Beauty's sisters
            sickened with
            envy, when they saw her dressed like a Princess, and more beautiful than ever; nor
            could all her
            obliging affectionate behaviour stifle their jealousy, which was ready to burst when
            she told
            them how happy she was. They went down into the garden to vent it in tears; and said
            one to the
            other, <span class="quote"><q>In what is this little creature better than us, that she should be so much
                  happier?</q></span>
            <span class="female"><span class="quote"><q>Sister, said the eldest, a thought just
                     strikes my mind; let us endeavour to detain her above a week, and perhaps the silly
                     monster
                     will be so enraged at her for breaking her word, that he will devour her.</q></span>
               <span class="quote"><q>Right, sister, answered the other, therefore we must shew her as much kindness as
                     possible.</q></span> After they had taken this resolution, they went up, and behaved so
               affectionately to their sister, that <span class="female">poor Beauty wept for joy.</span> When the week was expired,
               they cried and tore their hair, and seemed so sorry to part with her, that she promised
               to
               stay a week longer.</span></p>
         <p>In the mean time, Beauty could not help reflecting on herself for the uneasiness she
            was likely
            to cause poor Beast, whom she sincerely loved, and really longed to see again. The
            tenth night
            she spent at her father's, she dreamed she was in the palace garden, and that she
            saw Beast
            extended on the grass-plot, who seemed just expiring, and, in a dying voice, reproached
            her with
            her ingratitude. <span class="female">Beauty started out of her sleep and bursting into tears,</span>
            <span class="quote"><q>Am not I very wicked, (said she) to act so unkindly to Beast, that has studied so
                  much to
                  please me in every thing? Is it his fault that he is so ugly, and has so little sense?
                  He is
                  kind and good, and that is sufficient. Why did I refuse to marry him? I should be
                  happier with
                  the monster than my sisters are with their husbands; it is neither wit nor a fine
                  person in a
                  husband, that makes a woman happy; but virtue, sweetness of temper, and complaisance:
                  and
                  Beast has all these valuable qualifications. It is true, I do not feel the tenderness
                  of
                  affection for him, but I find I have the highest gratitude, esteem, and friendship;
                  and I will
                  not make him miserable; were I to be so ungrateful, I should never forgive myself.</q></span>
            <span class="free">Beauty having said this, rose, put her ring on the table, and then
               laid down again;</span> scarce was she in bed before she fell asleep; and when she waked
            the next morning, she was overjoyed to find herself in the Beast's palace. She put
            on one of her
            richest suits to please him, and waited for evening with the utmost impatience; at
            last the
            wished-for hour came, the clock struck nine, yet no Beast appeared. <span class="female">Beauty then feared she had been the cause of his death; she
               ran crying and wringing her hands all about the palace, like one in despair; after
               having
               sought for him every where, she recollected her dream, and flew to the canal in the
               garden,
               where she dreamed she saw him.</span> There she found poor Beast stretched out, quite
            senseless, and, as she imagined, dead. <span class="female">She threw herself upon him without any dread, and finding his heart beat
               still, she fetched some water from the canal, and poured it on his head.</span> Beast
            opened his eyes, and said to Beauty, <span class="quote"><q>You forgot your promise, and I was so afflicted for
                  having lost you, that I resolved to starve myself; but since I have the happiness
                  of seeing
                  you once more, I die satisfied.</q></span>
            <span class="quote"><q>No, dear Beast, (said Beauty,) you must not die; live to be my husband; from this
                  moment
                  I give you my hand, and swear to be none but yours. Alas! I thought I had only a friendship
                  for you, but, the grief I now feel convinces me, that I cannot live without you.</q></span>
            Beauty scarcely had pronounced these words, when she saw the palace sparkle with light;
            and
            fireworks, instruments of music, every thing, seemed to give notice of some great
            event: but
            nothing could fix her attention; she turned to her dear Beast, for whom she trembled
            with fear;
            but how great was her surprise! Beast had disappeared, and she saw, at her feet, <span class="male">one of the loveliest Princes that eye
               ever beheld,</span> who returned her thanks for having put an end to the charm,
            under which he had so long resembled a Beast. Though this Prince was worthy of all
            her
            attention, she could not forbear asking where Beast was. <span class="quote"><q>You see him at your feet, (said
                  the Prince): a wicked fairy had condemned me to remain under that shape till <span class="female">a beautiful virgin should consent
                     to marry me:</span> the fairy likewise enjoined me to conceal my understanding;
                  there was only you in the world generous enough to be won by the goodness of my temper;
                  and in
                  offering you my crown, I can't discharge the obligations I have to you.</q></span> Beauty,
            agreeably surprised, gave the <span class="adj">charming</span> Prince her hand to rise; they went
            together into the castle, and Beauty was overjoyed to find, in the great hall, her
            father and
            his whole family, whom the <span class="adj">beautiful</span> lady, that appeared to her in her
            dream, had conveyed thither.</p>
         <p><span class="quote"><q>Beauty, (said this lady,) come and receive the reward of your judicious choice; you
                  have
                  preferred virtue before either wit or beauty, and deserve to find a person in whom
                  all these
                  qualifications are united: <span class="female">you are going to be a great Queen; I hope the throne will not
                     lessen your virtue, or make you forget yourself.</span> As to you, ladies, (said the
                  Fairy to Beauty's two sisters,) I know your hearts, and all the malice they contain:
                  become
                  two statues; but, under this transformation, still retain your reason. You shall stand
                  before
                  your sister's palace gate, and be it your punishment to behold her happiness; and
                  it will not
                  be in your power to return to your former state till you own your faults; but I am
                  very much
                  afraid that you will always remain statues. <span class="adj">Pride, anger, gluttony, and
                     idleness,</span> are sometimes conquered, but the conversion of a malicious and envious
                  mind is a kind of miracle.</q></span> Immediately the fairy gave a stroke with her wand, and in a
            moment all that were in the hall were transported into the Prince's palace. His subjects
            received him with joy; he married Beauty, and lived with her many years; and their
            happiness, as
            it was founded on virtue, was complete.</p>
      </section>
   </body>
</html>