<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Conclusion</title>
        <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="indexcss.css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <h1>Conclusion of our Research</h1>
        <ol>
            <li><a href="index.xhtml">Home</a></li>
            <li><a href="methodologies.xhtml">Methodologies</a></li>
            <li><a href="folklore_histories.xhtml">Textual History</a></li>
            <li><a href="texts.xhtml">Texts</a></li>
            <li><a href="analysis.xhtml">Analysis</a></li>
            <li><a href="conclusion.xhtml">Conclusion</a></li>
        </ol>
        <h2>Conclusion</h2>
        <p>Through our research, we've found that women in folklore often follow the traditional
            social roles that were given to women: domestic life, reproductive capabilities, and
            being in a heteronormative relationship. While there are some outliers in our data,
            specifically, the renditions of "Sleeping Beauty," instead of reading this as a
            counterargument, we read it through a lens of hopefulness for female autonomical
            representations. Folktales have been read to us since we were children, and if we have
            stories that teach us to be brave in a range of situations, we mght feel empowered to
            break free of the domestic sphere and do so. However, regardless of the story and level
            of autonomy, each folktale has one thing in common: the pursuance of a male figure. This
            is a restricting role in and of itself, and shows us the heteronormative societies that
            we've examined, where women are expected (regardless of situation) to find a male to
            marry and settle down with. We hope that, in the future, these stories will continue to
            be adapted to have more representation and story options shown. </p>
        <h2>Bibliography</h2>
        <p>
            Beaumont, Jeanne-Marie Leprince. "Beauty and the Beast", The Project Gutenberg eBook of Beauty and the Beast, www.gutenberg.org/cache/epub/7074/pg7074-images.html. Accessed 2024. <br/>
            Burne-Jones, Edward Coley. "The Sleeping Beauty, (from the small Briar Rose series)",  Museo de Arte de Ponce, https://jstor.org/stable/community.22126498. Accessed 2024. <br/>
            Grimm, Jacob, and Wilhelm Grimm. “Little Briar-Rose.” Translated by Margaret Hunt, Grimm’s Fairy Tales, Carnegie Mellon University, www.cs.cmu.edu/~spok/grimmtmp/039.txt. Accessed 2024. <br/>
            Grimm, Jacob, and Wilhelm Grimm. “The Singing, Soaring Lark.” Translated by Margaret Hunt, Grimm’s Fairy Tales, Carnegie Mellon University, www.cs.cmu.edu/~spok/grimmtmp/065.txt.  Accessed 2024. <br/>
            Hey, Paul. "Rapunzel", Wikimedia Commons, https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Rapunzel-Paul-Hey.jpg. Accessed 2024. <br/>
            Perrault, Charles. “The Sleeping Beauty in the Wood.” Translated by D.L. Ashliman, Charles Perrault’s Mother Goose Tales, D.L. Ashliman, 8 June 2013, sites.pitt.edu/~dash/perrault01.html. <br/>  
            Zipes, Jack. "Jack Zipes Historic Fairy Tale Postcards", Minneapolis College of Art and Design, www.jstor.org/site/mcad/jack-zipes-historic-fairy-tale-postcards. Accessed 2024.<br/>
            Grimm, Brothers. “Rapunzel.” CMU School of Computer Science, www.cs.cmu.edu/~spok/grimmtmp/009.txt. Accessed 24 Apr. 2024.<br/> 
            Grimm, Brothers. “Little Red-Cap.” CMU School of Computer Science, www.cs.cmu.edu/~spok/grimmtmp/020.txt. Accessed 24 Apr. 2024. <br/> 
            Grimm, Brothers. “Little Briar-Rose.” CMU School of Computer Science, www.cs.cmu.edu/~spok/grimmtmp/039.txt. Accessed 24 Apr. 2024. <br/>
            Grimm, Brothers. “Little Snow-White.” CMU School of Computer Science, www.cs.cmu.edu/~spok/grimmtmp/042.txt. Accessed 24 Apr. 2024. <br/>
            Grimm, Brothers. “The Singing, Soaring Lark.” CMU School of Computer Science, www.cs.cmu.edu/~spok/grimmtmp/065.txt. Accessed 24 Apr. 2024.<br/> 
            Basile , Giambattista. “Petrosinella - an Italian Rapunzel Tale by Giambattista Basile.” RSS, 19 Jan. 2024, www.pookpress.co.uk/petrosinella-italian-tale-rapunzel/. <br/>
            Perrault, Charles. “Little Red Riding Hood.” Perrault: Little Red Riding Hood, sites.pitt.edu/~dash/perrault02.html. Accessed 24 Apr. 2024. <br/>
            Perrault, Charles. “The Sleeping Beauty in the Wood.” Perrault: The Sleeping Beauty in the Wood, sites.pitt.edu/~dash/perrault01.html. Accessed 24 Apr. 2024. <br/>
            Basile , Giambattista. “The Young Slave.” Snow-White and Other Tales of Type 709, sites.pitt.edu/~dash/type0709.html. Accessed 25 Apr. 2024. <br/>
            Beaumont, Jeanne-Marie. “Beauty and the Beast.” Beauty and the Beast, sites.pitt.edu/~dash/beauty.html. Accessed 25 Apr. 2024. <br/>
            
            
        </p>
    </body>
</html>
