<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Grimm Brothers' Fairytales</title>

        <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="indexcss.css" />

        <!--Would be nice if the top of the page was an image-->
    </head>

    <body>
        <ul>
            <li><a href="methodologiex.xhtml">Methodologies</a></li>
        </ul>
        <!--This is the start of our NAV BAR!-->
        <h1>Women in Folklore</h1>
        <!--Would like to add an image beneath this-->
        <!-- we will also need to add indivudual pages for each piece of lit-->
        <!-- should make all h2 content on seperate xhtml docs so we can have them listed across the top of the screen as option in a nav bar -->
        <h2>Background</h2>
        <p>Throughout history, the gender roles of women have been predominantly enforced as
            submissive to their male counterparts. This arises in real-world structures and,
            similarily, in the art that is produced-- specifically, through literature. Whether
            explicitly or implicitly, the characterizations of women are meant to show female
            readers how they're "supposed" to behave. This is done through the innocence and
            purification of young, beautiful antagonists, while simultaneously villainizing older,
            more "rigid" women (who happen to be past the age of child-bearing). Folktales are a
            great source to examine how these stereotypical norms are presented to readers, as they
            are well-known stories that arise in a range of cultures.</p>
        <h2>Research Questions</h2>
        <p>Our group's goal is to analyze the ways women are shown to behave and the implications
            this has on real-world readers. We ask:</p>
        <ul>
            <li>How do cultural translations of folktales act as a lens on female roles in their
                respective societies?</li>
            <li>Are women depicted as autonomous or subdued? What is their societal role?</li>
            <li>What are the different female stereotypes that are represented? Does this vary by
                age?</li>
            <li>What role do men in folktales play?</li>
            <li>How are relationships between women represented?</li>
            <li>What role do maternal and paternal figures play in these stories?</li>
        </ul>
        <h2>Meet Our Team</h2>
        <ul>
<<<<<<< HEAD
            <li> <strong>Ava</strong> add bio here</li>
            <li> <strong>Harper</strong> is a sophmore majoring in History and Art History. She also took this class for a general education requirement but has been pleasantly suprised 
                to find out how coding can aid her in continuing her studies in History. </li>
            <li><strong>Briana</strong> is a sophomore triple-majoring in English Literature, Communications and Philosophy. Her goal with this course was to not only fulfill a general education requirement, but to approach her humanities research in a new light.</li>
            <li><strong>Teagan</strong>  is a junior studying history and English literature. She took this course as
                a general education requirement, and also wanted to learn more about efficiently
                researching multiple documents or historical works at once.</li>
            <li> <strong>Vanessa: </strong> add bio here</li>
=======
            <li>
                <strong>Ava: </strong> add bio here</li>
            <li>
                <strong>Harper: </strong> add bio here</li>
            <li><strong>Briana: </strong> is a sophomore triple-majoring in English Literature,
                Communications and Philosophy. Her goal with this course was to not only fulfill a
                general education requirement, but to approach her humanities research in a new
                light.</li>
            <li><strong>Teagan: </strong> is a junior studying history and English literature. She
                took this course as a general education requirement, and also wanted to learn more
                about efficiently researching multiple documents or historical works at once.</li>
            <li>
                <strong>Vanessa: </strong> is a junior majoring in History with a double minor in
                Film and Media Studies and Nonfiction Writing. She took this course to complete a
                general education requirement and along the way has picked up many new computational
                skills that can be applied in many areas of her studies. </li>
>>>>>>> 43afc01be4eac5f66938400b1c90e4563df45e85
        </ul>
    </body>
</html>
