<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en">
   <head>
      <title>Little Briar Rose</title>
      <ol>
         <li><a href="folklore_index.xhtml">Home</a></li>
         <li><a href="methodologies.xhtml">Methodologies</a></li>
         <li><a href="texts.xhtml">Texts</a></li>
         <li><a href="analysis.xhtml">Analysis</a></li>
         <li><a href="folklore_histories.xhtml">The Histories</a></li>
      </ol>
      <title>Nav Bar for Grimm and Original Fairytales (respectively)</title>
      <ol>
         <li><a href="littlebriarrose.xhtml">Little Briar Rose (Sleeping Beauty)</a></li>
         <li><a href="rapunzel6.xhtml">Rapunzel</a></li>
         <li><a href="snowwhite_grimm.xhtml">Little Snow-White (Snow White)</a></li>
         <li><a href="singingsoaring.xhtml">The Singing Sprining Lark(Beauty and the Beast)</a></li>
         <li><a href="redridingfirst.xhtml">Little Red-Cap (Red Riding Hood)</a></li>
      </ol>
      <ol>
         <li><a href="thesleepingbeautyinthewood.xhtml">The Sleeping Beauty in the Wood (Sleeping Beauty)</a></li>
         <li><a href="petrosinella2.xhtml">Petrosinella (Rapunzel)</a></li>
         <li><a href="snowwhite_original.xhtml">The Young Slave (Snow White)</a></li>
         <li><a href="beautyandbeast.xhtml">Beauty and the Beast</a></li>
         <li><a href="redriding_frenchadaptation.xhtml">Little Red Riding Hood (Red Riding Hood)</a></li>
      </ol>
      <link href="xsltstyle.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/><script src="folklore_script.js"></script><title>Toggable List of Elements and Attributes </title>
   </head>
   <body>
      <ul id="mainList">
         <li><strong>Characteristic</strong></li>
         <div id="charSublist" class="sublist"></div>
         <ul>
            <li>Depiction</li>
            <ul>
               <li>Beauty</li>
               <li>Innocent</li>
               <li>Naivity</li>
               <li>Maternal</li>
               <li>Emotional</li>
               <li>Clever</li>
               <li>Secluded</li>
               <li>Protective</li>
               <li>Brave</li>
               <li>Domesticity</li>
            </ul>
            <li>Gender</li>
            <ul>
               <li>Female</li>
               <li>Male</li>
            </ul>
            <li>Age</li>
            <ul>
               <li>Young</li>
               <li>Old</li>
            </ul>
            <li>Char_type</li>
            <ul>
               <li>Physical</li>
               <li>Nonphysical</li>
            </ul>
         </ul>
         <li><strong>Autonomy</strong></li>
         <div id="autoSublist" class="sublist">
            <ul>
               <li>Auto_type</li>
               <ul>
                  <li>Controlled</li>
                  <li>Free</li>
               </ul>
               <li>Level</li>
               <ul>
                  <li>Male_savior</li>
                  <li>Damsel</li>
                  <li>Evil</li>
                  <li>Religious</li>
                  <li>Heroine</li>
                  <li>Societal_expectations</li>
               </ul>
               <li>Gender</li>
               <ul>
                  <li>Female</li>
                  <li>Male</li>
               </ul>
            </ul>
         </div>
         <li><strong>Villainization</strong></li>
         <div id="villSublist" class="sublist">
            <ul>
               <li>Cause</li>
               <ul>
                  <li>Competition</li>
                  <li>Jealousy</li>
                  <li>Revenge</li>
                  <li>Unspecified</li>
                  <li>Sex</li>
                  <li>Power</li>
                  <li>Manipulation</li>
               </ul>
               <li>Gender</li>
               <ul>
                  <li>Female</li>
                  <li>Male</li>
               </ul>
            </ul>
         </div>
         <li><strong>Reproduction</strong></li>
         <div id="repSublist" class="sublist">
            <ul>
               <li>Rep_type</li>
               <ul>
                  <li>Menstruation</li>
                  <li>Childbirth</li>
                  <li>Sex</li>
               </ul>
            </ul>
         </div>
         <li><strong>Adjective</strong></li>
         <div id="adjSublist" class="sublist">
            <ul>
               <li>Gender</li>
               <ul>
                  <li>Female</li>
                  <li>Male</li>
               </ul>
            </ul>
         </div>
      </ul>
      <h1>Little Briar Rose</h1>
      <section>
         <p>A long time ago there were a king and queen who said every day, ah, <span class="female">if only we had a child, but they never had one</span>.
            But it happened that once when the queen was bathing, a frog crept out of the water
            on to
            the land, and said to her, <span class="female">your wish shall be
               fulfilled, before a year has gone by, you shall have a daughter</span>.</p>
         <p>What the frog had said came true, <span class="female">and the
               queen had a little girl who was so pretty</span> that the king could not
            contain himself for joy, and ordered a great feast. He invited not only his kindred,
            friends
            and acquaintances, <span class="female">but also the <span class="female">wise</span> women, in order that
               they might be kind and well-disposed towards the child.</span> There were
            thirteen of them in his kingdom, but, as he had only twelve golden plates for them
            to eat
            out of, one of them had to be left at home.</p>
         <p>The feast was held with all manner of splendor and when it came to an end the <span class="female">wise</span> women bestowed their magic gifts upon the baby -
            <span class="female">one gave virtue</span>, <span class="female">another beauty,</span> a
            third riches,
            <span class="female">and so on with everything in the world that one can wish
               for.</span></p>
         <p>When eleven of them had made their promises, suddenly the thirteenth came in. <span class="female"><span class="female">She wished to avenge herself for not having been invited,
                  and without greeting, or even looking at anyone, she cried with a loud
                  voice, the king's daughter shall in her fifteenth year </span></span>, <span class="menstruation">the king's daughter shall in her fifteenth year prick herself
               with a spindle, and fall down dead.</span> And, without saying a word more, she turned round and
            left the room.</p>
         <p>They were all shocked, but the twelfth, whose good wish still remained unspoken, came
            forward, <span class="female">and as she could not undo the evil sentence, but only soften it</span>, she said, it shall
            not be death, but a deep sleep of a hundred years, into which the princess shall fall.</p>
         <p>The king, who would fain keep his dear child from the misfortune, gave orders that
            every
            spindle in the whole kingdom should be burnt. <span class="female">Meanwhile the gifts of the wise women were plenteously fulfilled on the young girl,
               for
               she was so <span class="female">beautiful</span>, <span class="female">modest</span>, <span class="female">good-natured</span>, and <span class="female">wise</span>, that everyone who saw her was
               bound to love her.</span></p>
         <p><span class="female">It happened that on the very day when she was fifteen years old, the king and queen
               were not
               at home, and the maiden was left in the palace quite alone. So she went round into
               all sorts
               of places, looked into rooms and bed-chambers just as she liked, and at last came
               to an old
               tower. She climbed up the narrow winding-staircase, and reached a little door. A rusty
               key
               was in the lock, and when she turned it the door sprang open, and there in a little
               room sat
               an old woman with a spindle, busily spinning her flax.</span></p>
         <p>Good day, old mother, said the king's daughter, what are you doing there. <span class="female">I am spinning, said the old woman, and nodded her head.
               <span class="female"> What sort of thing is that, that rattles round so merrily, said the girl, and she
                  took
                  the spindle and wanted to spin too.</span> But scarcely had she touched the spindle when the
               magic decree was fulfilled, <span class="menstruation">and she pricked her finger with it</span>. </span></p>
         <p>And, in the very moment when <span class="menstruation">she felt the prick, she fell down upon the bed that stood there,
               and lay in a deep sleep.</span> And this sleep extended over the whole palace, the king and queen
            who had just come home, and had entered the great hall, began to go to sleep, and
            the whole
            of the court with them. The horses, too, went to sleep in the stable, the dogs in
            the yard,
            the pigeons upon the roof, the flies on the wall, even the fire that was flaming on
            the
            hearth became quiet and slept, the roast meat left off frizzling, and the cook, who
            was just
            going to pull the hair of the scullery boy, because he had forgotten something, let
            him go,
            and went to sleep. And the wind fell, and on the trees before the castle not a leaf
            moved
            again.</p>
         <p>But round about the castle there began to grow a hedge of thorns, which every year
            became
            higher, and at last grew close up round the castle and all over it, so that there
            was
            nothing of it to be seen, not even the flag upon the roof. <span class="female">But the story of the <span class="female">beautiful</span> sleeping briar-rose, for so the princess
               was named, went about the country, <span class="male">so that from time to time kings' sons came and tried
                  to get through the thorny hedge into the castle</span>.</span></p>
         <p>But they found it impossible, for the thorns held fast together, as if they had hands,
            and
            the youths were caught in them, could not get loose again, and died a miserable death.</p>
         <p>After long, long years a king's son came again to that country, and heard an <span class="male">old</span> man talking
            about the thorn-hedge, and that a castle was said to stand behind it in which a
            <span class="female"><span class="female">wonderfully beautiful</span> princess, named
               briar-rose, had been asleep for a hundred years</span>, and that the king and
            queen and the whole court were asleep likewise. He had heard, too, from his grandfather,
            <span class="male">that many kings, sons had already come,
               and had tried to get through the thorny hedge, but they had remained sticking fast
               in
               it, and had died a pitiful death.</span></p>
         <p><span class="male">Then the youth said, I am not afraid,</span> <span class="female">I will
               go and see the beautiful briar-rose.</span> The good old man might dissuade
            him as he would, he did not listen to his words.</p>
         <p>But by this time the hundred years had just passed, and the day had come when briar-rose
            was
            to awake again. <span class="male">When the king's son came
               near to the thorn-hedge </span>, it was nothing but <span class="female">large and beautiful flowers, which parted from each other of their own accord, and
               let him pass unhurt, then they closed again behind him like a
               hedge.</span> In the castle yard he saw the horses and the spotted hounds lying
            asleep, on the roof sat the pigeons with their heads under their wings. And when he
            entered
            the house, the flies were asleep upon the wall, the cook in the kitchen was still
            holding
            out his hand to seize the boy, and the maid was sitting by the black hen which she
            was going
            to pluck.</p>
         <p>He went on farther, and in the great hall he saw the whole of the court lying asleep,
            and up
            by the throne lay the king and queen.</p>
         <p>Then he went on still farther, and all was so quiet that a breath could be heard,
            and at last
            he came to the tower, and opened the door into the little room where briar-rose was
            sleeping.</p>
         <p><span class="male"><span class="female">There she lay, so beautiful that he could not
                  turn his eyes away, and he stooped down and gave her a kiss.</span>But as soon
               as he kissed her, <span class="female">briar-rose opened her eyes and awoke, and
                  looked at him quite <span class="female">sweetly</span></span>.</span></p>
         <p>Then they went down together, and the king awoke, and the queen, and the whole court,
            and
            looked at each other in great astonishment. And the horses in the courtyard stood
            up and
            shook themselves, the hounds jumped up and wagged their tails, the pigeons upon the
            roof
            pulled out their heads from under their wings, looked round, and flew into the open
            country,
            the flies on the wall crept again, the fire in the kitchen burned up and flickered
            and
            cooked the meat, the joint began to turn and sizzle again, and the cook gave the boy
            such a
            box on the ear that he screamed, and the maid finished plucking the fowl.</p>
         <p>
            <span class="female">And then the marriage of the king's son with
               briar-rose was celebrated with all splendor, and they lived <span class="female">contented</span> to the end of
               their days.</span>
            </p>
      </section>
   </body>
</html>