<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Methodologies</title>
    </head>
    <body>
        <p>NOTE: each element has a myraid of attributes that correspond with them. "Gender" is the
            only attribute to appear across multiple elements. This is due to the significant role
            that gender and sexuality played in our research. </p>
        <table>
            <!-- i added text to all the elements and attributes we used. however i think the use of the table makes the html messy, 
                perhaps we can just put a table around the attributes we use? -->
            <!-- maybe we can section out each element part, and then if there's attributes (i.e. characteristic depiction, villainization cause) 
                then put those in a table -->
            <tr>
                <th>Structural Elements</th>
            </tr>
            <tr>
                <td><strong>Story</strong>: the root element of all of our XMLs</td>
            </tr>
            <tr>
                <td><strong>Title</strong>: contains the title text for the various fairytales</td>
            </tr>
            <tr>
                <td><strong>P</strong>: contains paragraphs, or any plain text separated by two new
                    lines</td>
            </tr>
            <tr>
                <td><strong>Quote</strong>: contains any text nested within quotations (most
                    commonly dialogue)</td>
            </tr>
        </table>
        <table>
            <tr>
                <th>The "Characteristic" Element</th>
                <th>Corresponding Attributes</th>
            </tr>
            <tr>
                <td><strong>Characteristic</strong>: contains sentences or phrases that define a
                    character's persona: what are they like? How are they defined?</td>
                <td><strong>Char_type</strong>: defines whether the character was being defined
                    based on "physical" or "nonphysical" attributes. This helped demonstrate where
                    emphasis was placed on physical attraction.</td>
            </tr>
            <tr>
                <td></td>
                <td><strong>Depiction</strong>: determines how a character is being portrayed. We
                    had a multitude of attributes corresponding with this element, including: <ul>
                        <li>"beauty" -- praising outward appearance</li>
                        <li>"naivity" -- being unaware or unsure</li>
                        <li>"innocent" -- shown as sweet, pure, soft, harmless</li>
                        <li>"maternal" -- a character acting noticeably mother-like</li>
                        <li>"emotional" -- crying, anger, overflow of emotion</li>
                        <li>"clever" -- when a character uses wit, smarts</li>
                        <li>"secluded" -- alone, shut out from society</li>
                        <li>"protective" -- looking out for someone, unselfish</li>
                        <li>"brave" -- fearlessness, strength</li>
                        <li>"domesticity" -- being bound to the home and doing housework (a role
                            commonly tied to women)</li>
                    </ul></td>
            </tr>
            <tr>
                <td></td>
                <td><strong>Gender</strong>: defines the gender ("male"/"female", since those were
                    the only genders shown in our stories) of who is being characterized</td>
            </tr>
            <tr>
                <td></td>
                <td><strong>Age</strong>: defines whether the person being characterized was "young"
                    or "old"</td>
            </tr>
        </table>
        <table>
            <tr>
                <th>The "Autonomy" Element</th>
                <th>Corresponding Attributes</th>
            </tr>
            <tr>
                <td><strong>Autonomy</strong>: contains sentences or phrases that demonstrate a
                    character's freedom levels</td>
                <td><strong>Auto_type</strong>: what type of autonomy did the character have? Were
                    they "controlled" or "free"?</td>
            </tr>
            <tr>
                <td></td>
                <td><strong>Level</strong>: who was restricting/enabling their autonomy? There were
                    a number of outside forces that determined autonomy and were reflected in our
                    attributes, which were: <ul>
                        <li>"male_savior" -- was a male character saving someone/demonstrating
                            patriarchal power?</li>
                        <li>"damsel" -- was a female character being depicted as hepless/someone who
                            needs saving?</li>
                        <li>"evil" -- was a character purposefully being personified as evil and
                            restricting others?</li>
                        <li>"religious" -- was a character being restrained based on religious
                            powers and beliefs?</li>
                        <li>"societal_expectations" -- did social norms (gender roles, expectations,
                            etc.) determine how a character had to act?</li>
                        <li>"heroin" -- was the savior ever female?</li>
                    </ul></td>
            </tr>
            <tr>
                <td></td>
                <td><strong>Gender</strong>: the gender of whose autonomy is being defined,
                    "male"/"female"</td>
            </tr>
        </table>
        <table>
            <tr>
                <th>The "Villainization" Element</th>
                <th>Corresponding Attributes</th>
            </tr>
            <tr>
                <td><strong>Villainization</strong>: contains sentences or phrases that portray a
                    character as an antagonist/villaian</td>
                <td><strong>Cause</strong>: the reason that the person was being villainized, which
                    may have included: <ul>
                        <li>"competition" -- vieiwing another character as a rival and thus bringing
                            them down</li>
                        <li>"jealousy" -- being upset that another character has something they
                            don't (beauty, power, wealth)</li>
                        <li>"revenge" -- getting someone back for a previous wrongdoing</li>
                        <li>"unspecified" -- the character is just seemingly evil with no defined
                            reason</li>
                        <li>"sex" -- driven by sexual desires</li>
                        <li>"manipulation" -- using trickery to overpower someone</li>
                        <li>"power" -- villainized because of strength</li>
                    </ul></td>
            </tr>
            <tr>
                <td></td>
                <td><strong>Gender</strong>: the gender of who is being villainized,
                    "male"/"female"</td>
            </tr>
        </table>
        <table>
            <tr>
                <th>The "Reproduction" Element</th>
                <th>Corresponding Attributes</th>
            </tr>
            <tr>
                <td><strong>Reproduction</strong>: contains sentences or phrases that demonstrate
                    reproductive imagery or symbolism. This is particularly because childbirth and
                    menstruation was a vital aspect in how women are perceived in previous societal
                    climates and folklore.</td>
                <td><strong>Rep_type</strong>: the attribute used to define which aspect of
                    reproduction was being alluded to or spoken about: <ul>
                        <li>"menstruation" -- use of the color red, coming of age/inevitability of
                            becoming a woman</li>
                        <li>"childbirth" -- rebirth imagery, new life</li>
                        <li>"sex" -- indulging in sexual desire, nakedness, pleasure</li>
                    </ul></td>
            </tr>
        </table>
        <table>
            <tr>
                <th>The "Adjective" Element</th>
                <th>Corresponding Attributes</th>
            </tr>
            <tr>
                <td><strong>Adjective</strong>: contains one-two words; wrapped around a small
                    adjective describing a character or their actions</td>
                <td><strong>Gender</strong>: gender of who is being described, "male"/"female"</td>
            </tr>
        </table>
        <p>For our textual examinations, each group member chose to study one traditional folktale,
            including: Snow White, Sleeping Beauty, Red Riding Hood, Rapunzel, and Beauty and the
            Beast. We each examined the origianl forms of these stories, working with original
            (often French) translations, taken from the Gutenberg Files, and adaptations written by
            the German-born Grimm Brothers. We marked up each of the documents in individual XML
            files. The goal in said markup was to examine the characteristics typically attributed
            to women: when they were villainized, how their autonomy differed from their male
            counterparts, where value was placed in their existence and how these stories provided a
            lens into society. We used our markup to highlight any mentions of female reproduction
            and domesticity to elicit themes of female inferiority on the basis of natural
            biological processes. By examining translations written by other authors of varying
            languages, we noted cultural differences in female characterization. Thus, by using consistent
            markup across all of our XML files, we were able to examine the ways gendered langauge
            changed from culture-to-culture, and the implications that these changes suggested. </p>
    </body>
</html>