<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <title>Parsley [Petrosinella]<link href="xsltstyle.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/></title>
   </head>
   <body>
      <h1>Parsley [Petrosinella]</h1>
      <section>
         <p>There was once upon a time a woman named Pascadozzia. As she was standing one day
            at a
            window, which looked into the garden of an ogress, <span class="female">she
               saw a <span class="adj">beautiful</span> bed of parsley, for which she took such a longing
               that she was on the point of fainting away</span>; and being <span class="female">unable to resist
               her desire</span>,
            she watched until the ogress went out, and then plucked a handful of it.</p>
         <p>But when <span class="female">the ogress came home, and was going to cook her pottage</span>, she
            found that some one had been at the parsley, and said, <span class="quote"><q>Ill luck to me but I'll catch
                  this <span class="adj">long-fingered</span> rogue, and
                  make him repent it, and teach him to his cost that every one should eat off his own
                  platter, and not meddle with other folks' cups.</q></span></p>
         <p>The <span class="adj">poor</span> woman went again and again down into the garden, until one
            morning the ogress met her, and in a <span class="female">furious
               rage</span> exclaimed, <span class="quote"><q><span class="female">Have I
                     caught you at last, you thief, you rogue? Prithee do you pay the rent of the garden,
                     that you come in this impudent way and steal my plants? <span class="female">
                        <span class="female">By
                           my faith</span>, but I'll make you do
                        penance!</span></span></q></span></p>
         <p><span class="adj">Poor</span> Pascadozzia, in a terrible fright, began to make excuses, saying
            that neither from gluttony nor the craving of hunger had <span class="female">she
               been tempted by the devil</span> to commit this fault, but fear <span class="female">she had lest the child should be born with a crop of parsley on its
               face</span>; and she added that the ogress ought rather to thank her, for not
            having given her sore eyes. <span class="quote"><q>Words are but wind,</q></span> answered the ogress; <span class="quote"><q>I
                  am not to be caught with such prattle; you have closed the balance sheet of
                  life,<span class="female"> unless you
                     promise to give me the child you bring forth, girl or boy, whichever it may
                     be.</span></q></span></p>
         <p><span class="female"><span class="adj">Poor</span>Pascadozzia</span>, in
            order to escape the peril in which she found herself, swore with one hand upon another
            to
            keep the promise. So the ogress let her go free. But when her time was come, <span class="childbirth">Pascadozzia gave birth to a little girl</span>,
            <span class="female">so beautiful that she was a joy to look
               upon</span>, who, from having a fine sprig of parsley on her bosom, was named
            Parsley. And the <span class="adj">little</span> girl grew from day to day, until when
            <span class="female">she was seven years old</span> her mother sent her
            to school; and every time she went along the street and met the ogress, <span class="female"><span class="female">the old woman</span> said to her, <span class="quote"><q>Tell your mother to
                     remember her
                     promise.</q></span></span></p>
         <p><span class="female">And she went on repeating this message so often</span>, that the
            <span class="adj">poor</span> mother, <span class="female">having no longer patience to listen to the same
               tale</span>, said one day
            to Parsley, <span class="quote"><q>If you meet the <span class="female">old woman</span> as
                  usual, and she reminds you of the <span class="adj">hateful</span> promise, answer her,
                  'Take it!'</q></span>When Parsley,<span class="female">
               who dreamt of no ill,</span> met the ogress again, and heard her repeat the
            same words, <span class="female">she answered
               <span class="adj">innocently</span> as her mother had told her</span>;
            whereupon the ogress, <span class="female">seizing her by her hair</span>,
            <span class="female">carried her off to a wood, which the sun never entered.
               Then she put the <span class="adj">poor</span> girl into a tower, which she caused to arise by
               her art, <span class="female">and which had neither gate nor ladder, but
                  only a little window</span>,through which she ascended and descended by means
               of Parsley's hair</span>, which was very long, as the sailor is used to run up and
            down the mast of a ship.</p>
         <p>Now it happened one day, when the ogress had left the tower, <span class="female">that
               Parsley put her head out of the little window, and let loose her tresses in the
               sun</span>; and the son of <span class="male">a prince passing by saw
               these two golden banners, which invited all souls to enlist under the standard of
               love</span>; and beholding with amazement in the midst of those <span class="female">gleaming waves a siren's face, that enchanted all hearts, he fell
               <span class="adj">desperately</span> in love with such
               <span class="adj">wonderful</span> beauty</span>; and sending her a memorial of
            sighs, she decreed to receive him into favor.</p>
         <p>Matters went on so well with the prince,<span class="female"> that there was soon a nodding of heads and kissing
               of hands, thanks and offerings, hopes and promises, soft words and compliments</span>.
            And when this had continued for several days, Parsley and the prince
            became <span class="sex">so intimate that they made an appointment to meet, and agreed that it should be at
               night</span>, and that <span class="female">
               Parsley should give the ogress some poppy juice</span>, and draw up the
            prince with her tresses. So when the appointed hour came, the prince went to the tower,
            where Parsley, letting fall her hair at a given signal, he seized it with both his
            hands,
            and cried, <span class="quote"><q>Draw up!</q></span> And when he was drawn up, <span class="sex">he crept through the little
               window into the chamber.</span></p>
         <p>The next morning early, the prince descended by the same golden ladder, to go his
            way home.
            And having repeated these visits many times, <span class="female">a gossip of the ogress, who was for ever prying
               into things that did not concern her</span>, and
            poking her nose into every corner, got to find out the
            secret, and told the ogress to be upon the lookout, for that Parsley was courted by
            <span class="male">a youth</span>.</p>
         <p>The ogress thanked the gossip for the information, and said she would take good care
            to stop
            up the road; and as to Parsley, <span class="female">it was impossible for her
               to escape, as she had laid a spell upon her</span>, so
            that, unless she had in her hand the three gallnuts which were in a rafter in the
            kitchen,
            <span class="female"> it would be labor lost to attempt to get away.</span></p>
         <p>Whilst they were talking thus together, <span class="female">Parsley, 
               who stood with her ears wide open, and had
               some suspicion of the gossip, overheard all that passed</span>. And when night had
            spread out her black garments, and the prince had come as usual, <span class="female">she made him climb onto the rafters and find the gallnuts, knowing
               well what effect they would have, as she had been enchanted by the
               ogress</span>. Then, having made a rope ladder, <span class="female">
               they both descended to the ground, took to their heels, and scampered off towards
               the
               city</span>.</p>
         <p>But the gossip happening to see them come out, set up a loud halloo, and began to
            shout and
            make such a noise that the ogress awoke; and seeing that Parsley had fled, she descended
            by
            the same ladder, which was fastened to the window, and set off running after the
            lovers, who, when they saw her coming at their heels faster than a horse
            let loose, gave themselves up for lost. <span class="female">But Parsley, recollecting
               the gallnuts, quickly threw one on the ground</span>, and lo! instantly a Corsican
            bulldog started up, -- a terrible beast! -- which with open jaws and barking loud
            flew at
            the ogress as if to swallow her at a
            mouthful. 
            But the <span class="female">old woman</span>, who was <span class="female">more
               <span class="adj">cunning</span> and <span class="adj">spiteful</span> than the
               devil</span>,
            <span class="female"><span class="female">
                  put her hand into her pocket, and pulling out a piece of
                  bread, gave it to the dog,</span> which made him hang his tail and allay his
               fury.</span></p>
         <p>Then she turned to run after the fugitives again; <span class="female">but Parsley,
               <span class="female">seeing her approach, threw the second gallnut on
                  the ground</span></span>,
            and lo! a fierce lion arose, who, lashing the earth with his tail, and shaking his mane, and
            opening wide his jaws a yard apart, was just preparing to make a slaughter of the
            ogress; <span class="female">when, turning quickly back,<span class="female"> 
                  she stripped the skin off an ass that was
                  grazing in the middle of a meadow, and ran at the lion</span></span>, who, fancying
            it a real jackass, was so frightened that he bounded away as fast
            as he could.</p>
         <p>The ogress, having leaped over this second ditch, turned again to pursue the
            <span class="adj">poor</span> lovers, who, hearing the clatter of her heels and seeing
            the cloud of dust that rose up to the sky, conjectured that she was coming again.
            But the
            <span class="female">old woman</span>, who was every moment in dread lest
            the lion should pursue her, had not taken off the ass's skin; <span class="female">and
               when Parsley now threw down the third gallnut</span>, there sprang up a wolf, who,
            without giving the ogress time to play any new trick, gobbled her up just as she was,
            in the
            shape of a jackass.</p>
         <p><span class="female">So the lovers, being now freed from danger</span>,
            <span class="female"> went their
               way <span class="adj">leisurely</span> and <span class="adj">quietly</span></span> to the kingdom of the
            prince, where, with his
            father's <span class="adj">free</span> consent, he took Parsley to wife; and thus, after all these storms of fate,
            they experienced the truth, that One hour in port, the sailor freed from fears Forgets
            the
            tempests of a hundred years. Zeza's story was listened to with such delight to the
            end,
            that, had it even continued for an hour longer, the time would have appeared only
            a
            moment.</p>
      </section>
   </body>
</html>