<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en">
   <head>
      <title>Rapunzel</title>
      <ol>
         <li><a href="folklore_index.xhtml">Home</a></li>
         <li><a href="methodologies.xhtml">Methodologies</a></li>
         <li><a href="texts.xhtml">Texts</a></li>
         <li><a href="analysis.xhtml">Analysis</a></li>
         <li><a href="folklore_histories.xhtml">The Histories</a></li>
      </ol>
      <title>Nav Bar for Grimm and Original Fairytales (respectively)</title>
      <ol>
         <li><a href="littlebriarrose.xhtml">Little Briar Rose (Sleeping Beauty)</a></li>
         <li><a href="rapunzel6.xhtml">Rapunzel</a></li>
         <li><a href="snowwhite_grimm.xhtml">Little Snow-White (Snow White)</a></li>
         <li><a href="singingsoaring.xhtml">The Singing Sprining Lark(Beauty and the Beast)</a></li>
         <li><a href="redridingfirst.xhtml">Little Red-Cap (Red Riding Hood)</a></li>
      </ol>
      <ol>
         <li><a href="thesleepingbeautyinthewood.xhtml">The Sleeping Beauty in the Wood (Sleeping Beauty)</a></li>
         <li><a href="petrosinella2.xhtml">Petrosinella (Rapunzel)</a></li>
         <li><a href="snowwhite_original.xhtml">The Young Slave (Snow White)</a></li>
         <li><a href="beautyandbeast.xhtml">Beauty and the Beast</a></li>
         <li><a href="redriding_frenchadaptation.xhtml">Little Red Riding Hood (Red Riding Hood)</a></li>
      </ol>
      <link href="xsltstyle.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/><script src="folklore_script.js"></script><title>Toggable List of Elements and Attributes </title>
   </head>
   <body>
      <ul id="mainList">
         <li><strong>Characteristic</strong></li>
         <div id="charSublist" class="sublist"></div>
         <ul>
            <li>Depiction</li>
            <ul>
               <li>Beauty</li>
               <li>Innocent</li>
               <li>Naivity</li>
               <li>Maternal</li>
               <li>Emotional</li>
               <li>Clever</li>
               <li>Secluded</li>
               <li>Protective</li>
               <li>Brave</li>
               <li>Domesticity</li>
            </ul>
            <li>Gender</li>
            <ul>
               <li>Female</li>
               <li>Male</li>
            </ul>
            <li>Age</li>
            <ul>
               <li>Young</li>
               <li>Old</li>
            </ul>
            <li>Char_type</li>
            <ul>
               <li>Physical</li>
               <li>Nonphysical</li>
            </ul>
         </ul>
         <li><strong>Autonomy</strong></li>
         <div id="autoSublist" class="sublist">
            <ul>
               <li>Auto_type</li>
               <ul>
                  <li>Controlled</li>
                  <li>Free</li>
               </ul>
               <li>Level</li>
               <ul>
                  <li>Male_savior</li>
                  <li>Damsel</li>
                  <li>Evil</li>
                  <li>Religious</li>
                  <li>Heroine</li>
                  <li>Societal_expectations</li>
               </ul>
               <li>Gender</li>
               <ul>
                  <li>Female</li>
                  <li>Male</li>
               </ul>
            </ul>
         </div>
         <li><strong>Villainization</strong></li>
         <div id="villSublist" class="sublist">
            <ul>
               <li>Cause</li>
               <ul>
                  <li>Competition</li>
                  <li>Jealousy</li>
                  <li>Revenge</li>
                  <li>Unspecified</li>
                  <li>Sex</li>
                  <li>Power</li>
                  <li>Manipulation</li>
               </ul>
               <li>Gender</li>
               <ul>
                  <li>Female</li>
                  <li>Male</li>
               </ul>
            </ul>
         </div>
         <li><strong>Reproduction</strong></li>
         <div id="repSublist" class="sublist">
            <ul>
               <li>Rep_type</li>
               <ul>
                  <li>Menstruation</li>
                  <li>Childbirth</li>
                  <li>Sex</li>
               </ul>
            </ul>
         </div>
         <li><strong>Adjective</strong></li>
         <div id="adjSublist" class="sublist">
            <ul>
               <li>Gender</li>
               <ul>
                  <li>Female</li>
                  <li>Male</li>
               </ul>
            </ul>
         </div>
      </ul>
      <h1>Rapunzel</h1>
      <section>
         <p> There were once a man and a woman who <span class="female">wished for a child</span>.
             At length the
            woman hoped <span class="female">that God was about to grant her
               desire</span>. These people had a little window at the back of their house from
            which a splendid garden could be seen, which was full of the most beautiful flowers
            and
            herbs. It was, however, surrounded by a high wall, and no one dared to go into it
            because it
            belonged to an enchantress , <span class="female">who had great power</span> and was <span class="female">
               dreaded
               by all the world</span>. One day the woman was standing by this window and
            looking down into the garden, when <span class="female">she
               saw a bed which was planted with the most beautiful rampion - rapunzel , and it looked
               so fresh and green that she longed for it</span>, and had the greatest desire
            to eat some. This desire increased every day
            ,
            and as she knew that she could not get any of it, <span class="female">she quite pined away, and began to look pale and
               miserable</span>.Then her husband was alarmed, and asked, <span class="quote"><q>what ails
                  you, dear wife.</q></span>
            <span class="quote"><q>Ah,</q></span> she replied, <span class="quote"><q>if I can't eat some of the rampion, which is in the
                  garden behind our house, I shall die .</q></span> The man, who loved her
            thought, <span class="male">sooner than let your wife die, bring
               her some of the rampion yourself, let it cost what it will</span>. At twilight, he
            clambered down over the wall into the garden of the enchantress ,<span class="male"> hastily clutched a handful of rampion, and took it to
               his wife</span>. She at once made herself a salad of it, and ate it
            <span class="adj">greedily</span>. It tasted so good to her - so very good, that the next
            day she longed for it three times as much as before. If he was to have any rest, her
            husband
            must once more descend into the garden. In the gloom of evening, therefore, he let
            himself
            down again. But when he had clambered down the wall he was terribly afraid, for he
            saw the
            enchantress standing before him.<span class="quote"><q><span class="female">How
                     can you dare, said she with angry look, descend into my garden and
                     steal my rampion like a thief. You shall suffer for it.</span></q></span>
            <span class="quote"><q>Ah,</q></span> answered he, <span class="quote"><q>let mercy take the place of justice, I only made up
                  my mind to do it out of necessity. My wife saw your rampion from the window, and felt
                  such a longing for it that she would have died if she had not got some to eat." Then
                  the
                  enchantress allowed her anger to be softened, and said to him,</q></span>
            <span class="quote"><q><span class="female">if the case be as you say, I will
                     allow you to take away with you as much rampion as you will, only I make one
                     condition, you must give me the child which your wife will bring into the world.
                     <span class="female"> It shall be well treated,
                        and I will care for it like a mother.</span>"</span></q></span>
            The man in his terror consented to
            everything, and when the woman
            was brought to bed, the enchantress appeared at once, gave the child the name of rapunzel
            ,
            <span class="female">and took it away with
               her</span>.Rapunzel grew into <span class="female">the most beautiful child under the sun</span>. When
            <span class="female">she was twelve years old</span>,
            the enchantress <span class="female"><span class="female">shut her into a tower, which lay in a forest,
                  and had neither stairs nor door, but quite at the top was a little
                  window.</span></span> When the enchantress wanted to go in, she placed
            herself beneath it and cried, <span class="quote"><q>rapunzel , rapunzel , let down your hair to me.</q></span>
            Rapunzel had <span class="female">magnificent long hair,
               fine as spun gold,</span> and when she heard the voice of the enchantress she
            unfastened <span class="female">her braided tresses, wound
               them round one of the hooks of the window above, and then the hair fell twenty ells
               down</span>, and the enchantress climbed up by it.</p>
         <p>After a year or two, it came to pass that the king's son rode through the forest and
            passed
            by the tower.Then he heard a song, which was so charming that he stood still and listened.
            This was rapunzel , who in her solitude passed her time
            in<span class="female"> letting <span class="female">her sweet voice</span>
               resound</span> The king's son wanted to climb up to her, and looked for the
            door of the tower, but none was to be found . He rode home, but the
            singing had so deeply touched his heart, that every day he went out into the forest
            and
            listened to it.Once when he was thus standing behind a tree, he saw that an enchantress
            came
            there, and he heard how she cried, <span class="quote"><q>rapunzel , rapunzel , let down your
                  hair.</q></span></p>
         <p>Then rapunzel let down the braids of her hair, and the enchantress climbed up to her.
            If that
            is the ladder by which one mounts, I too will try my fortune , said he, and
            the next day when it began to grow dark, he went to the tower and cried, <span class="quote"><q>rapunzel ,
                  rapunzel , let down your hair.</q></span></p>
         <p> Immediately the hair fell down and the king's son climbed up. At first rapunzel was
            terribly
            frightened when a man, such as her eyes had never yet beheld ,
            came to her. But the king's son began to talk to her quite like a friend, and told
            her that
            his heart had been so stirred that it had let him have no rest
            , and he<span class="female"> had been forced to see her</span>
            .
            Then rapunzel lost her fear, and when he asked her if she would take him for her husband,
            and she saw that he was <span class="male">young</span>
            and <span class="male">handsome</span>, she thought,
            he will love me more than <span class="female">old</span>
            dame gothel does . And she said yes, and laid her hand in his. She said,
            <span class="quote"><q>I will willingly go away with you, <span class="female">
                     but I do not know how to get down.</span>" </q></span>
            <span class="quote"><q>Bring with you a skein of silk every time that you come, and I will weave a ladder
                  with it, and when <span class="female">that is ready
                     I will descend, and you will take me on your horse</span>.</q></span> They
            agreed that until that time he should come to her every evening, for the old <span class="female">woman</span> came by day. The enchantress remarked
            nothing of this, until once rapunzel said to her, <span class="quote"><q>tell me, dame gothel , how it
                  happens that <span class="female">you are so much
                     heavier</span>
                   for me to draw up than the young king's son  - he
                  is with me in a moment.</q></span>
            <span class="quote"><q>Ah. You wicked child,</q></span> cried the enchantress . <span class="quote"><q>What do I hear you say.
                  <span class="female">I thought <span class="female">I had separated you from all the world
                        </span>, and yet you have deceived
                     me.</span></q></span> In her anger she clutched rapunzel 's <span class="female">beautiful tresses,</span>
            <span class="female">wrapped them twice round her left hand, seized a pair
               of scissors with the right, and snip, snap,
               
               they were cut off, and the <span class="adj">lovely</span> braids lay on the
               ground.</span>
            <span class="female"> And she was so pitiless that <span class="female">she took poor rapunzel into a desert where she
                  had to live in great grief and misery</span></span>.</p>
         <p>On the same day that she cast out rapunzel ,however, the enchantress fastened the
            braids of
            hair, which she had cut off , to the hook of the window, and
            when the king's son came and cried, <span class="quote"><q>rapunzel , rapunzel , let down your hair,she let
                  the hair down.</q></span></p>
         <p>The king's son ascended, but instead of finding his dearest rapunzel , he found the
            enchantress , <span class="female">who gazed at him with
               wicked and venomous looks</span>. <span class="quote"><q>Aha</q></span>, <span class="female">she cried mockingly</span>, <span class="quote"><q>you would fetch your dearest, but
                  the <span class="adj">beautiful</span> bird sits no longer singing in the nest.
                  The cat has got it, and will scratch out your eyes as well.
                  <span class="female">Rapunzel is lost to you. You will
                     never see her again.</span></q></span> The king's son was beside himself with pain,
            and in his despair he leapt down from the tower.<span class="male"> He escaped with his life, but the thorns into which he fell pierced his
               eyes</span>
            . Then he wandered quite blind about the
            forest, ate nothing but roots and berries, and did naught but lament and weep over
            the loss
            of his
            <span class="adj">dearest
               wife</span>. Thus he roamed about in <span class="adj">misery</span> for some years,
            and at length came to the desert where rapunzel , <span class="female">with the twins to which she had given birth
               , a boy and a girl</span>, lived in
            wretchedness . He heard a voice, and it seemed so familiar to him that he
            went towards it, and when he approached, rapunzel knew him and fell on his neck and
            wept.Two
            of her tears wetted his eyes and they grew clear again, and he could see with them
            as
            before.
            <span class="male">He led her to his kingdom where he was joyfully
               received</span>, and they lived for a long time afterwards, happy and contented .</p>
      </section>
   </body>
</html>