<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en">
   <head>
      <title>Little Red Riding Hood</title>
      <ol>
         <li><a href="folklore_index.xhtml">Home</a></li>
         <li><a href="methodologies.xhtml">Methodologies</a></li>
         <li><a href="texts.xhtml">Texts</a></li>
         <li><a href="analysis.xhtml">Analysis</a></li>
         <li><a href="folklore_histories.xhtml">The Histories</a></li>
      </ol>
      <title>Nav Bar for Grimm and Original Fairytales (respectively)</title>
      <ol>
         <li><a href="littlebriarrose.xhtml">Little Briar Rose (Sleeping Beauty)</a></li>
         <li><a href="rapunzel6.xhtml">Rapunzel</a></li>
         <li><a href="snowwhite_grimm.xhtml">Little Snow-White (Snow White)</a></li>
         <li><a href="singingsoaring.xhtml">The Singing Sprining Lark(Beauty and the Beast)</a></li>
         <li><a href="redridingfirst.xhtml">Little Red-Cap (Red Riding Hood)</a></li>
      </ol>
      <ol>
         <li><a href="thesleepingbeautyinthewood.xhtml">The Sleeping Beauty in the Wood (Sleeping Beauty)</a></li>
         <li><a href="petrosinella2.xhtml">Petrosinella (Rapunzel)</a></li>
         <li><a href="snowwhite_original.xhtml">The Young Slave (Snow White)</a></li>
         <li><a href="beautyandbeast.xhtml">Beauty and the Beast</a></li>
         <li><a href="redriding_frenchadaptation.xhtml">Little Red Riding Hood (Red Riding Hood)</a></li>
      </ol>
      <link href="xsltstyle.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/><script src="folklore_script.js"></script><title>Toggable List of Elements and Attributes </title>
   </head>
   <body>
      <ul id="mainList">
         <li><strong>Characteristic</strong></li>
         <div id="charSublist" class="sublist"></div>
         <ul>
            <li>Depiction</li>
            <ul>
               <li>Beauty</li>
               <li>Innocent</li>
               <li>Naivity</li>
               <li>Maternal</li>
               <li>Emotional</li>
               <li>Clever</li>
               <li>Secluded</li>
               <li>Protective</li>
               <li>Brave</li>
               <li>Domesticity</li>
            </ul>
            <li>Gender</li>
            <ul>
               <li>Female</li>
               <li>Male</li>
            </ul>
            <li>Age</li>
            <ul>
               <li>Young</li>
               <li>Old</li>
            </ul>
            <li>Char_type</li>
            <ul>
               <li>Physical</li>
               <li>Nonphysical</li>
            </ul>
         </ul>
         <li><strong>Autonomy</strong></li>
         <div id="autoSublist" class="sublist">
            <ul>
               <li>Auto_type</li>
               <ul>
                  <li>Controlled</li>
                  <li>Free</li>
               </ul>
               <li>Level</li>
               <ul>
                  <li>Male_savior</li>
                  <li>Damsel</li>
                  <li>Evil</li>
                  <li>Religious</li>
                  <li>Heroine</li>
                  <li>Societal_expectations</li>
               </ul>
               <li>Gender</li>
               <ul>
                  <li>Female</li>
                  <li>Male</li>
               </ul>
            </ul>
         </div>
         <li><strong>Villainization</strong></li>
         <div id="villSublist" class="sublist">
            <ul>
               <li>Cause</li>
               <ul>
                  <li>Competition</li>
                  <li>Jealousy</li>
                  <li>Revenge</li>
                  <li>Unspecified</li>
                  <li>Sex</li>
                  <li>Power</li>
                  <li>Manipulation</li>
               </ul>
               <li>Gender</li>
               <ul>
                  <li>Female</li>
                  <li>Male</li>
               </ul>
            </ul>
         </div>
         <li><strong>Reproduction</strong></li>
         <div id="repSublist" class="sublist">
            <ul>
               <li>Rep_type</li>
               <ul>
                  <li>Menstruation</li>
                  <li>Childbirth</li>
                  <li>Sex</li>
               </ul>
            </ul>
         </div>
         <li><strong>Adjective</strong></li>
         <div id="adjSublist" class="sublist">
            <ul>
               <li>Gender</li>
               <ul>
                  <li>Female</li>
                  <li>Male</li>
               </ul>
            </ul>
         </div>
      </ul>
      <h1>Little Red Riding Hood</h1>
      <section>
         <p>Once upon a time there lived in a certain village a <span class="adj">little country</span>
            girl, <span class="beauty">the <span class="adj">prettiest</span> creature who
               was ever seen</span>. <span class="maternal">Her mother was
               <span class="adj">excessively fond</span> of her; and her grandmother doted on her
               still more</span>. <span class="menstruation">This <span class="adj">good woman</span> had a little red riding hood
               <span class="controlled">made for
                  her</span>.
               It suited the girl so extremely well that everybody called her Little Red Riding
               Hood.</span> One day her mother, <span class="domesticity">having
               made some cakes</span>, said to her, <span class="quote"><q><span class="old"><span class="controlled">Go, my dear, and see how your grandmother is doing, for I
                        hear she has been very ill</span></span>. <span class="domesticity">Take her a cake, and this little pot of
                     butter</span>.</q></span></p>
         <p><span class="innocent">Little Red Riding Hood set out immediately to go to her
               grandmother</span>, who <span class="old">lived in another village.</span></p>
         <p>As she was going through the wood, <span class="free">she met with a wolf</span>
            ,
            <span class="male">who had a very great mind to eat her
               up, but he dared not, because of some woodcutters working nearby in the
               forest</span>.
            He asked her where she was going. The <span class="adj">poor child</span>, <span class="innocent">who did not know that it was dangerous to stay and talk to a
               wolf</span>, said to him, <span class="quote"><q>I am going to see my grandmother and carry
                  her a cake and a little pot of butter from my mother.</q></span></p>
         <p><span class="quote"><q>Does she live far off?</q></span> said the wolf</p>
         <p><span class="quote"><q>Oh I say,</q></span> answered <span class="adj">Little</span> Red Riding Hood; <span class="quote"><q><span class="naivity">it is beyond that mill you see there, at the first house in the
                     village</span>.</q></span></p>
         <p><span class="quote"><q>Well,</q></span> said the wolf, <span class="quote"><q>and I'll go and see her too. <span class="manipulation"><span class="free">I'll go this way and go you that,
                        and we shall see who will be there
                        first</span></span>.</q></span></p>
         <p><span class="male">The wolf ran as fast as he could, taking the
               shortest path</span>, and the <span class="adj">little girl</span> took a roundabout way,
            <span class="innocent">entertaining herself by <span class="domesticity">gathering nuts, running after butterflies, and gathering
                  bouquets of little
                  flowers</span></span>.
            It was not long before the wolf arrived at the <span class="adj">old woman</span>'s house. He knocked at the door:
            tap, tap.</p>
         <p>
            <span class="quote"><q>Who's there?</q></span>
            </p>
         <p><span class="quote"><q>Your grandchild, Little Red Riding Hood,</q></span> replied the wolf, <span class="manipulation">counterfeiting her voice</span>; <span class="quote"><q>who has brought
                  you a cake and a little pot of butter sent you by mother.</q></span></p>
         <p>The <span class="adj">good grandmother</span>, <span class="controlled">who was in
               bed, because she was somewhat ill</span>, cried out, <span class="quote"><q>Pull the bobbin,
                  and the latch will go up.</q></span></p>
         <p>The wolf pulled the bobbin, and the door opened, and then <span class="controlled">he
               immediately fell upon the good
               woman
               and ate her up in a moment, for it been more than three days
               since he had eaten</span>. He then <span class="manipulation">shut the
               door and got into the grandmother's bed, expecting Little Red Riding
               Hood</span>, who came some time afterwards and knocked at the door: tap,
            tap.</p>
         <p>
            <span class="quote"><q>Who's there?</q></span>
            </p>
         <p>Little Red Riding Hood, <span class="innocent">hearing the <span class="adj">big</span> voice of the
               wolf, was at first afraid; but <span class="naivity">believing her
                  grandmother had a cold and was hoarse</span></span>, answered,
            <span class="quote"><q>It is your grandchild Little Red Riding Hood, who has brought you a cake and a
                  little pot of butter mother sends you.</q></span></p>
         <p>The wolf cried out to her, <span class="male">softening his voice as much as he could</span>, <span class="quote"><q>Pull the bobbin,
                  and the latch will go up.</q></span></p>
         <p>Little Red Riding Hood pulled the bobbin, and the door opened.</p>
         <p>The wolf, seeing her come in, said to her, hiding himself under the bedclothes, <span class="quote"><q>Put
                  the cake and the little pot of butter upon the stool, and <span class="sex">come get into bed with me</span>.</q></span></p>
         <p>
            <span class="sex"><span class="free">Little Red Riding Hood took off her clothes and got into
                  bed</span>. She was greatly amazed to see how her grandmother looked in her
               nightclothes, and said to her, <span class="quote"><q>Grandmother, what big arms you have!</q></span></span>
            
            </p>
         <p><span class="naivity"> <span class="manipulation"><span class="quote"><q>All the better to hug you with, my dear.</q></span>
                  
                  <span class="quote"><q>Grandmother, what big legs you have!</q></span>
                  
                  <span class="quote"><q>All the better to run with, my child.</q></span>
                  
                  <span class="quote"><q>Grandmother, what big ears you have!</q></span>
                  
                  <span class="quote"><q>All the better to hear with, my child.</q></span>
                  
                  <span class="quote"><q>Grandmother, what big eyes you have!</q></span>
                  
                  <span class="quote"><q>All the better to see with, my child.</q></span>
                  
                  <span class="quote"><q>Grandmother, what big teeth you have got!</q></span>
                  
                  <span class="quote"><q>
                        <span class="male">All the better to eat you up
                           with.</span>
                        </q></span></span></span></p>
         <p>And, saying these words, <span class="controlled">this <span class="adj">wicked</span> wolf fell upon Little Red Riding Hood, and ate her all
               up</span>.</p>
         <p>Moral: Children, <span class="beauty">especially
               <span class="adj">attractive</span>, <span class="adj">well bred young</span>
               ladies</span>, should never talk to strangers, for if they should do so, they
            may well provide dinner for a wolf. <span class="male">I say
               <span class="quote"><q>wolf,</q></span> but there are various kinds of wolves.</span> There
            are also those who are <span class="male"> charming, quiet, polite, unassuming,
               complacent, and sweet,</span> who pursue young women at home and in the streets.
            And <span class="male">unfortunately, it is these <span class="adj">gentle</span> wolves who are the most
               dangerous ones of all</span>.</p>
      </section>
   </body>
</html>