<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <title>Little Red-Cap<link href="xsltstyle.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/></title>
   </head>
   <body>
      <h1>Little Red-Cap</h1>
      <section>
         <p>Once upon a time there was a <span class="innocent"><span class="adj">dear
                  little</span> girl</span> who was <span class="physical">loved by every one who looked at her</span>, but most of
            all by her grandmother, and <span class="maternal">there was nothing that she would
               not have given to the child</span>. Once she gave her a <span class="menstruation">little cap of red velvet</span>, which <span class="physical">suited her so
               well</span>that she would
            never wear anything else; so she was always called “<span class="adj">Little</span>
            Red-Cap.”</p>
         <p>One day her mother said to her, “Come, <span class="adj">Little</span> Red-Cap, here is a piece
            of cake and a bottle of wine; <span class="controlled">take them to your grandmother</span>, <span class="old"><span class="controlled">
                  she is ill and
                  weak</span></span>, and they will do her good. Set out before it gets hot,
            and when you are going, <span class="innocent">
               <span class="societal_expectations">walk nicely and quietly and do not run off the
                  path</span></span>, or you may fall and break the bottle, and then
            <span class="societal_expectations">your grandmother will get
               nothing</span>; and
            when you go into her room, <span class="societal_expectations"> don’t forget to say,
               ‘Good-morning,’</span> and don’t peep into every corner before you do it.”</p>
         <p><span class="quote"><q><span class="innocent">I will take great care,</span></q></span>
            said <span class="adj">Little</span> Red-Cap to her mother, and gave her hand on it.</p>
         <p>The <span class="old">grandmother lived out in the wood, half a
               league from the village</span>, and just as <span class="adj">Little</span>
            Red-Cap entered the wood, a wolf met her. Red-Cap did not know what a <span class="adj">wicked</span> creature he was, and
            <span class="naivity">was not at all afraid of him</span>.</p>
         <p><span class="quote"><q>Good-day, <span class="adj">Little</span> Red-Cap,</q></span> said he.
            <span class="quote"><q><span class="innocent">Thank you kindly,
                     wolf.</span></q></span></p>
         <p><span class="quote"><q>Whither away so early, <span class="adj">Little</span> Red-Cap?</q></span>
            <span class="quote"><q>To my grandmother’s.</q></span>
            <span class="quote"><q>What have you got in your apron?</q></span>
            <span class="quote"><q><span class="domesticity">Cake and wine; yesterday was
                     baking-day</span>, so <span class="adj">poor sick</span> grandmother is to have
                  something good, to make her stronger.</q></span>
            <span class="quote"><q>Where does your grandmother live, <span class="adj">Little</span> Red-Cap?</q></span></p>
         <p><span class="quote"><q><span class="naivity">A good quarter of a league farther on in the wood;
                     her house stands under the three large oak-trees, the nut-trees are just below; you
                     surely must know it,</span></q></span> replied <span class="adj">Little</span>
            Red-Cap.</p>
         <p>The wolf thought to himself, <span class="quote"><q><span class="young">What a
                     <span class="adj">tender young</span> creature! what a <span class="old"><span class="adj">nice plump</span> mouthful—<span class="controlled">she will be better to eat</span> than the <span class="adj">old</span>
                        woman</span></span>.
                  I must act craftily, so as to catch both.</q></span> So he walked for a short time by the
            side of <span class="adj">Little</span> Red-Cap, and then he said, <span class="quote"><q>See
                  <span class="adj">Little</span> Red-Cap, how pretty the flowers are about
                  here—why do you not look
                  round? I believe, too, that you do not hear how sweetly the little
                  birds are singing; you walk gravely along as if you were going to school, while
                  everything else out here in the wood is merry.</q></span></p>
         <p><span class="adj">Little</span> Red-Cap raised her eyes, and when she saw the sunbeams dancing
            here and there through the trees, and pretty flowers growing everywhere, she thought,
            <span class="quote"><q><span class="innocent">Suppose I take grandmother a fresh
                     nosegay; that would please her too</span>. It is so early in the day that
                  I shall still get there in good time;</q></span> and <span class="innocent">so she ran from the path into the wood to look for flowers. And <span class="naivity">whenever she had picked one, she fancied that she saw a still
                  prettier one farther on, and ran after it, and so got deeper and deeper into the
                  wood.</span></span></p>
         <p>Meanwhile the wolf ran straight to the grandmother’s house and knocked at the door.</p>
         <p><span class="quote"><q>Who is there?</q></span></p>
         <p><span class="quote"><q>Little Red-Cap,</q></span> replied the wolf. <span class="quote"><q>She is bringing cake and wine; open
                  the door.</q></span></p>
         <p><span class="quote"><q>Lift the latch,</q></span> called out the grandmother, <span class="quote"><q><span class="old">
                     <span class="controlled">I am too <span class="adj">weak</span>, and cannot
                        get
                        up.</span></span></q></span></p>
         <p>The wolf lifted the latch, the door flew open, and without
            saying a word he went straight to the grandmother’s bed, and devoured
            her. Then he put on her clothes,
            dressed himself in her cap, laid himself in bed and drew the
            curtains.</p>
         <p><span class="naivity">
               <span class="innocent"><span class="adj">Little</span> Red-Cap, however, had
                  been running about picking flowers, and when she had gathered so many that she could
                  carry no more, she remembered her grandmother, and set out on the way to
                  her.</span>
               </span></p>
         <p>She was surprised to find the cottage-door standing open, and when she went into the
            room,
            she had such a <span class="adj">strange</span> feeling that she said to herself, <span class="quote"><q>Oh
                  dear! how uneasy I feel to-day, and at other times <span class="maternal">I like being with grandmother so
                     much</span>.</q></span> She called out, <span class="quote"><q>Good
                  morning,</q></span> but received no answer; so she went to the bed and drew back the
            curtains. There lay her grandmother with her cap pulled far over her face, and looking
            very
            strange.</p>
         <p><span class="naivity"><span class="quote"><q>Oh! grandmother,</q></span> she said, <span class="quote"><q>what big
                     ears you have!</q></span>
               <span class="quote"><q>The better to hear you with, my child,</q></span> was the reply. <span class="quote"><q>But,
                     grandmother, what big eyes you have!</q></span> she said. <span class="quote"><q>The better to see you
                     with, my dear.</q></span>
               <span class="quote"><q>But, grandmother, what large hands you have!</q></span>
               <span class="quote"><q>The better to hug you with.</q></span>
               <span class="quote"><q>Oh! but, grandmother, what a terrible big mouth you have!</q></span>
               <span class="quote"><q>The better to eat you with!</q></span></span></p>
         <p>And scarcely had the wolf said this, than with one bound he was
            out of bed and swallowed up Red-Cap.</p>
         <p><span class="male">When the wolf
               had appeased his appetite, he lay down again in the bed, fell asleep and began to
               snore very loud</span>. <span class="male_savior">The
               huntsman was just passing the house, and thought to himself, <span class="quote"><q>How the old woman is
                     snoring! I must just see if she wants anything.</q></span></span> So he went into
            the room, and when he came to the bed, he saw that the wolf was lying in it.
            <span class="quote"><q><span class="religious">Do I find thee here, thou old
                     sinner!</span></q></span> said he. <span class="quote"><q>I have long sought thee!</q></span> Then
            <span class="male">just as he was going to fire at him, it
               occurred to him that the wolf might have devoured the grandmother</span>, and
            that <span class="male_savior">she might still be saved</span>, so he did not fire,
            but <span class="childbirth">took a pair of scissors, and began to cut open the
               stomach of the sleeping wolf. When he had made two snips, he saw the little Red-Cap
               shining, and then he made two snips more, and the <span class="adj">little girl</span>
               sprang out</span>, crying, <span class="quote"><q><span class="childbirth"> Ah, how
                     frightened I have been! How dark it was inside the
                     wolf;</span></q></span> and <span class="sex">after that the <span class="adj">aged grandmother</span> came out alive
               also, but scarcely able to
               breathe</span>.
            <span class="clever">Red-Cap, however, quickly fetched
               <span class="adj">great</span> stones with which they filled the wolf’s
               body</span>, and when he awoke, he wanted to run away, but the stones were so
            heavy that he fell down at once, and fell dead.</p>
         <p>Then all three were delighted. The huntsman drew off the wolf’s skin and went home
            with it;
            the grandmother ate the cake and drank the wine which Red-Cap had brought, and revived,
            but
            Red-Cap thought to herself,
            <span class="quote"><q><span class="domesticity">
                     <span class="societal_expectations">As long as I live, I will never by myself
                        leave the path, to run into the wood, when my <span class="maternal">mother has forbidden me to do
                           so</span>.</span></span></q></span></p>
         <p>It
            is also related that once when Red-Cap was again taking cakes to the <span class="adj">old
               grandmother</span>, <span class="sex">another wolf spoke to her, and
               tried to entice her from the path. <span class="clever"> Red-Cap, however,
                  was on her guard, and went straight forward on her
                  way</span>, and
               told her grandmother that she had met the wolf, and that he had said
               <span class="quote"><q>good-morning</q></span> to her, but with such a wicked look in his eyes, that
               if they had not been on the public road she was
               certain he would have eaten her up. <span class="quote"><q>Well,</q></span> said the
               grandmother, <span class="quote"><q>we will shut the door, that he may not come
                     in.</q></span></span> Soon afterwards the wolf knocked, and cried,
            <span class="quote"><q>Open the door, grandmother, I am little Red-Cap, and am fetching you some
                  cakes.</q></span> But they did not speak, or open the door, so the grey-beard stole twice
            or thrice round the house, and at last jumped on
            the roof, intending to wait until Red-Cap went home in the evening, and then to steal
            after her and devour her in the darkness. But <span class="protective">the
               grandmother saw what was in his thoughts</span>. In front of the house was a
            great stone trough, so she said to the child, <span class="quote"><q>Take the pail, Red-Cap; <span class="domesticity">I made some sausages yesterday</span>, so carry
                  the water in which I boiled them to the trough.</q></span> Red-Cap carried until the great
            trough was quite full. Then <span class="male">the smell of
               the sausages reached the wolf, and he sniffed and peeped down, and at last stretched
               out
               his neck so far that he could no longer keep his footing and began to slip, and slipped
               down from the roof straight into the great trough, and was
               drowned</span>.
            But <span class="innocent">Red-Cap went joyously home, and never did anything
               to harm any one</span>.</p>
      </section>
   </body>
</html>