<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <title>Little Snow-white<link href="xsltstyle.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/></title>
   </head>
   <body>
      <h1>Little Snow-white</h1>
      <section>
         <p>Once upon a time in the middle of winter, when the flakes of snow were falling like
            feathers
            from the sky, a queen sat at a window sewing, and the frame of the window was made
            of black
            ebony. And whilst she was sewing and looking out of the window at the snow, <span class="rep" rep_type="childbirth"> she pricked her finger with the needle, and three drops of blood
               fell upon the snow. </span> And the red looked pretty upon the white snow, and
            she thought to herself, <span class="quote"><q> Would that I had a <span class="char" depiction="" char_type="physical"> child
                     as <span class="adj"> white as snow, </span> as <span class="rep" rep_type="menstruation">red as blood, </span> and as black as the wood of
                     the window-frame. </span> </q></span> </p>
         <p>Soon after that she had a <span class="char" depiction="" char_type="physical"> <span class="adj">
                  little </span> daughter, who was as <span class="adj"> white as
                  snow </span>, and as <span class="rep" rep_type="menstruation"> red as
                  blood </span>, and her hair was as black as ebony; </span> and she
            was therefore called <span class="adj"> Little </span> Snow-white. And when the
            child was born, the Queen died.</p>
         <p>After a year had passed the King took to himself another wife. She was <span class="char" depiction="beauty"> a beautiful woman, but <span class="adj"> proud and
                  haughty </span>, and she could not bear that anyone else should surpass her in
               beauty. </span> She had a wonderful looking-glass, and when she stood in front
            of it and looked at herself in it, and said— 
            <span class="quote"><q>Looking-glass, Looking-glass, on the wall, Who in this land is the <span class="adj"> fairest </span> of all? </q></span> the looking-glass answered—
            <span class="quote"><q> Thou, O Queen, art the fairest of all! </q></span>  Then she was
            satisfied, for she knew that the looking-glass spoke the truth.</p>
         <p><span class="char" depiction="beauty"> But Snow-white was growing up, and grew more and more
               beautiful; and when she was seven years old she was as beautiful as the day, and
               <span class="adj"> more beautiful than the Queen
                  herself. </span> </span> And once when the Queen asked her
            looking-glass— 
            <span class="quote"><q> Looking-glass, Looking-glass, on the wall, Who in this land is the fairest of
                  all? </q></span> it answered— <span class="quote"><q> Thou art fairer than all who are here, Lady
                  Queen. <span class="char" depiction="beauty"> But more beautiful still is
                     Snow-white, </span> as I ween. </q></span> Then the Queen was shocked, and
            turned yellow and green with envy. From that hour, whenever she looked at Snow-white,
            her heart heaved in her breast, she <span class="adj"> hated </span> the
            girl so much.  </p>
         <p> And <span class="adj"> envy and pride </span>
            grew higher and higher in her heart like a weed, so that she had no peace day or night.
            She called a huntsman, and said, <span class="auto" level="evil"> <span class="quote"><q> Take the child away into
                     the forest; I will no longer have her in my sight. Kill her, and bring me back
                     her heart as a token. </q></span> </span> 
            <span class="auto" level="evil"> The huntsman obeyed, and took her away; </span> but when he had
            drawn his knife, and was about to pierce <span class="char" depiction="innocent"> Snow-white’s
               <span class="adj"> innocent </span> heart, </span> she began to
            weep, and said, <span class="quote"><q> <span class="auto" level="damsel" auto_type="free" gender="female"> Ah dear
                     huntsman, leave me my life! I will run away into the wild forest, and never come
                     home again. </span> </q></span> </p>
         <p><span class="char" depiction="beauty"> And as she was so beautiful </span> the huntsman
            had <span class="adj"> pity </span> on her and said, <span class="quote"><q> Run away, then, you
                  <span class="adj"> poor child. </span> </q></span>
            <span class="quote"><q> <span class="auto" level="damsel" auto_type="free" gender="female"> The wild beasts will soon
                     have devoured you, </span> </q></span> thought he, and yet it seemed as if a stone
            had been rolled from his heart since it was no longer needful for him to kill her.
            And as a
            young boar just then came running by he stabbed it, and cut out its heart and took
            it to the
            Queen as proof that the child was dead. The cook had to salt this, and  the wicked Queen ate it, and thought she had eaten the heart of
            Snow-white.  </p>
         <p><span class="auto" level="damsel"> But now the <span class="adj"> poor child </span> was
               all alone in the great forest, and so <span class="adj"> terrified </span>
               that she looked at every leaf of every tree, and did not know what to do. Then she
               began
               to run, and ran over sharp stones and through thorns, </span> and the wild beasts ran
            past her, but did her no harm.</p>
         <p><span class="auto" level="damsel"> She ran as long as her feet would go until it was almost
               evening; </span> then she saw a little cottage and went into it to rest herself.
            Everything in the cottage was small, but neater and cleaner than can be told. There
            was a
            table on which was a white cover, and seven little plates, and on each plate a little
            spoon;
            moreover, there were seven little knives and forks, and seven little mugs. Against
            the wall
            stood seven little beds side by side, and covered with snow-white counterpanes.</p>
         <p><span class="auto" level="damsel"> <span class="char" depiction="innocent"> <span class="adj">
                     Little </span> Snow-white </span> was so hungry and thirsty that
               she ate some vegetables and bread from each plate and drank a drop of wine out of
               each
               mug, for she did not wish to take all from one only. Then, as she was so tired, she
               laid
               herself down on one of the little beds, but none of them suited her; one was too long,
               another too short, but at last she found that the seventh one was right, and so she
               remained in it, said a prayer and went to sleep. </span> </p>
         <p>When it was quite dark the owners of the cottage came back; they were seven dwarfs
            who dug
            and delved in the mountains for ore. They lit their seven candles, and as it was now
            light
            within the cottage they saw that someone had been there, for everything was not in
            the same
            order in which they had left it.</p>
         <p>The first said, <span class="quote"><q> Who has been sitting on my chair? </q></span> The second, <span class="quote"><q> Who has
                  been eating off my plate? </q></span> The third, <span class="quote"><q> Who has been taking some of my
                  bread? </q></span> The fourth, <span class="quote"><q> Who has been eating my vegetables? </q></span> The fifth,
            <span class="quote"><q> Who has been using my fork? </q></span> The sixth, <span class="quote"><q> Who has been cutting with
                  my knife? </q></span> The seventh, <span class="quote"><q> Who has been drinking out of my mug? </q></span> </p>
         <p>Then the first looked round and saw that there was a <span class="adj">
               little </span> hole on his bed, and he said, <span class="quote"><q> Who has been getting into my
                  bed? </q></span> The others came up and each called out, <span class="quote"><q> Somebody has been lying in
                  my bed too.</q></span> But the seventh when he looked at his bed saw <span class="adj"> little </span> Snow-white, who was lying asleep therein. And he
            called the others, who came running up, and they cried out with astonishment, and
            brought
            their seven little candles and let the light fall on <span class="char" depiction="innocent">
               little Snow-white. </span> <span class="quote"><q> Oh, heavens! oh, heavens! </q></span> cried they, 
            <span class="quote"><q> <span class="char" depiction="" age="young"> what a lovely child! </span> </q></span> and they were so 
            glad that they did not wake her up, but let her sleep on in the bed. And the seventh
            
            dwarf slept with his companions, one hour with each, and so got through the night.</p>
         <p>When it was morning <span class="char" depiction="innocent"> little Snow-white </span>
            awoke, and was frightened when she saw the seven dwarfs. But they were friendly and
            asked
            her what her name was. <span class="quote"><q> My name is Snow-white, </q></span> she answered. <span class="quote"><q> How have
                  you come to our house? </q></span> said the dwarfs. Then she told them that her step-mother
            had wished to have her killed, but that the huntsman had spared her life, and that
            she had
            run for the whole day, until at last she had found their dwelling. The dwarfs said,
            <span class="quote"><q> <span class="auto" level="societal_expectations"> If you will take care of our house,
                     cook, make the beds, wash, sew, and knit, and if you will keep everything neat and
                     clean, you can stay with us and you shall want for nothing. </span> </q></span>
            <span class="quote"><q> Yes,</q></span> said Snow-white, <span class="quote"><q>with all my heart, </q></span> and she stayed with
            them. <span class="auto" level="societal_expectations"> She kept the house in order for them; in the
               mornings they went to the mountains and looked for copper and gold, in the evenings
               they
               came back, and then their supper had to be ready. </span> The girl was alone the
            whole day, so the good dwarfs warned her and said, <span class="quote"><q> Beware of your step-mother, she
                  will soon know that you are here; be sure to let no one come in. </q></span> </p>
         <p> But the Queen, believing that she had eaten Snow-white’s
            heart, could not but think that she was again the first and <span class="adj">
               most beautiful of all </span>; and she went to her looking-glass and said—
            <span class="quote"><q> Looking-glass, Looking-glass, on the wall, Who in this land is the <span class="adj"> fairest of all? </span> </q></span> and the glass answered—
            <span class="quote"><q> Oh, Queen, thou art fairest of all I see, But over the hills, where the seven
                  dwarfs dwell, Snow-white is still alive and well, <span class="char" depiction="beauty">
                     And none is so <span class="adj"> fair </span> as
                     she. </span> </q></span> Then she was astounded, for she knew that the
            looking-glass never spoke falsely, and she knew that the huntsman had betrayed her,
            and
            that <span class="char" depiction="innocent"> little Snow-white </span> was still
            alive.  </p>
         <p> And so she thought and thought again how she might kill her,
            for so long as she was not <span class="char" depiction="beauty"> the <span class="adj"> fairest </span> in the whole land, </span> envy let
            her have no rest.  And when she had at last thought of something to do,
            <span class="char" depiction=""> she painted her face, and dressed herself like an <span class="adj"> old </span> peddler-woman, </span> and no one could
            have known her. In this disguise she went over the seven mountains to the seven dwarfs,
            and
            knocked at the door and cried, <span class="quote"><q> Pretty things to sell, very cheap, very cheap. </q></span>
            <span class="char" depiction="innocent"> Little Snow-white </span> looked out of the
            window and called out, <span class="quote"><q> Good-day my good woman, what have you to sell? </q></span>
            <span class="quote"><q> Good things, pretty things,</q></span> she answered; <span class="quote"><q> stay-laces of all
                  colours,</q></span> and she pulled out one which was woven of bright-coloured silk.
            <span class="quote"><q> I may let the worthy <span class="char" depiction="" age="old"> old woman
                     </span> in,</q></span> thought Snow-white, and she unbolted the door and bought
            the pretty laces. <span class="quote"><q> Child,</q></span> said the old woman, <span class="quote"><q> what a fright you look;
                  come, I will lace you properly for once. </q></span> Snow-white <span class="char" depiction="naivity" age="young" gender="female"> had no suspicion, </span> but
            stood before her, and let herself be laced with the new laces. But the  old woman laced so quickly and so tightly that Snow-white lost her
            breath and fell down as if dead.  <span class="quote"><q> <span class="char" depiction="">Now I am the
                     most beautiful, </span> </q></span> said the Queen to herself, and ran
            away.</p>
         <p>Not long afterwards, in the evening, the seven dwarfs came home, but how shocked they
            were
            when they saw their <span class="char" depiction="innocent"> <span class="adj"> dear
                  little </span> Snow-white</span> lying on the ground, and that she
            neither stirred nor moved, and seemed to be dead. They lifted her up, and, as they
            saw that
            she was laced too tightly, they cut the laces; then she began to breathe a little,
            and after
            a while came to life again. When the dwarfs heard what had happened they said, <span class="quote"><q> The
                  <span class="adj"> old </span> peddler-woman was no one else than the
                  <span class="adj"> wicked </span>
                  Queen:  take care and let no one come in when we are not with
                  you. </q></span> </p>
         <p> But the <span class="adj"> wicked </span>
            woman when she had reached home went in front of the glass and asked—
            <span class="quote"><q> Looking-glass, Looking-glass, on the wall, Who in this land is the fairest of
                  all? </q></span> and it answered as before— <span class="quote"><q> Oh, Queen, thou art <span class="adj"> fairest </span> of all I see, But over the hills, where the
                  seven dwarfs dwell, Snow-white is still alive and well, And <span class="char" depiction="beauty"> none is so <span class="adj"> fair </span> as
                     she. </span> </q></span>  </p>
         <p>When she heard that, all her blood rushed to her heart with fear, for she saw plainly
            that
            <span class="char" depiction="innocent"> <span class="adj"> little </span>
               Snow-white </span> was again alive. <span class="quote"><q> But now,</q></span> she said,
            <span class="quote"><q>I will think of something that shall put an
                  end to you,  </q></span> and by the help of witchcraft, which she
            understood,  she made a poisonous comb.  Then she disguised
            herself and took the shape of another <span class="char" depiction="" age="old"> old woman. </span>
            So she went over the seven mountains to the seven dwarfs, knocked at the door, and
            cried,
            <span class="quote"><q> Good things to sell, cheap, cheap! </q></span>
            <span class="char" depiction="innocent"> Little Snow-white </span> looked out and said,
            <span class="quote"><q> Go away; I cannot let any one come in. </q></span>
            <span class="quote"><q> I suppose you can look, </q></span> said the old woman, and pulled the poisonous comb out
            and held it up. It <span class="char" depiction="naivity"> pleased the girl so well that she let
               herself be <span class="adj"> beguiled, </span> </span> and opened
            the door. When they had made a bargain the <span class="adj"> old </span> woman
            said, <span class="quote"><q> Now I will comb you properly for once. </q></span>
            <span class="char" depiction="innocent"> Poor little Snow-white </span> had no
            suspicion, and let the old woman do as she pleased, but hardly had  she put the comb in her hair than the poison in it took effect, and the
            girl fell down <span class="adj"> senseless. </span> 
            <span class="quote"><q> <span class="char" depiction="beauty"> You paragon of beauty, </span> </q></span>
            said the  <span class="adj"> wicked </span>
            woman,  <span class="quote"><q> you are done for now,” and she went away. </q></span> </p>
         <p>But fortunately it was almost evening, when the seven dwarfs came home. When they
            saw
            Snow-white lying as if dead upon the ground they at once suspected the step-mother,
            and they
            looked and found the poisoned comb. Scarcely had they taken it out when Snow-white
            came to
            herself, and told them what had happened. Then they warned her once more to be upon
            her
            guard and to open the door to no one.</p>
         <p> The Queen, at home, went in front of the glass and said—
            <span class="quote"><q> Looking-glass, Looking-glass, on the wall, Who in this land is <span class="adj"> the fairest of all? </span> </q></span> then it answered as
            before— <span class="quote"><q> Oh, Queen, thou art <span class="adj"> fairest </span> of all
                  I see, But over the hills, where the seven dwarfs dwell, Snow-white is still alive
                  and well, <span class="char" depiction="beauty"> And none is so <span class="adj"> fair </span> as she. </span> </q></span> When she
            heard the glass speak thus she trembled and shook with rage. <span class="quote"><q> Snow-white shall
                  die, </q></span> she cried, <span class="quote"><q> even if it costs me my
                  life! </q></span>  </p>
         <p>Thereupon she went into a quite secret, lonely room, where no
            one ever came, and there she made a very poisonous apple. Outside it looked pretty,
            white with a red cheek, so that everyone who saw it longed for it; but whoever ate
            a
            piece of it must surely die.  </p>
         <p>When the apple was ready she painted her face, and <span class="char" depiction="" char_type="physical">
               dressed herself up as a country-woman, </span> and so she went over the seven
            mountains to the seven dwarfs. She knocked at the door. Snow-white put her head out
            of the
            window and said, <span class="quote"><q> I cannot let any one in; the seven dwarfs have forbidden me. </q></span>
            <span class="quote"><q>It is all the same to me,</q></span> answered the woman, <span class="quote"><q> I shall soon get rid of
                  my apples. There, I will give you one. </q></span> </p>
         <p><span class="quote"><q>No, </q></span> said Snow-white, <span class="quote"><q> I dare not take anything.</q></span>
            <span class="quote"><q> Are you afraid of poison? </q></span> said the <span class="adj"> old </span>
            woman; <span class="quote"><q> look, I will cut the apple in two pieces; you eat the red cheek, and I will
                  eat the white. </q></span> The apple was so <span class="adj"> cunningly </span>
            made that only the red cheek was poisoned. Snow-white longed for the fine apple, and
            when
            she saw that the woman ate part of it <span class="auto" auto_type="controlled"> she could resist no
               longer, and stretched out her hand and took the poisonous half. </span> But hardly
            had she a bit of it in her mouth than she fell down dead.  Then the Queen looked at her with a dreadful look, and laughed
            aloud  and said, <span class="quote"><q> <span class="char" depiction="" char_type="physical"> <span class="adj"> White as snow, red as blood, black as
                        ebony-wood! </span> </span> this time the dwarfs cannot wake you up
                  again. </q></span> </p>
         <p> And when she asked of the Looking-glass at home—
            <span class="quote"><q> Looking-glass, Looking-glass, on the wall, Who in this land is the <span class="adj"> fairest </span> of all? </q></span> it answered at last—
            <span class="quote"><q> Oh, Queen, in this land <span class="char" depiction="beauty"> thou art
                     <span class="adj"> fairest </span> of
                     all. </span> </q></span> Then her <span class="adj">
               envious</span> heart had rest, so far as an envious heart can have
            rest.  </p>
         <p>The dwarfs, when they came home in the evening, found Snow-white lying upon the ground;
            she
            breathed no longer and was dead. They lifted her up, looked to see whether they could
            find
            anything poisonous, unlaced her, combed her hair, washed her with water and wine,
            but it was
            all of no use; the poor child was dead, and remained dead. They laid her upon a bier,
            and
            all seven of them sat round it and wept for her, and wept three days long.</p>
         <p>Then they were going to bury her, but she still looked as if she were living, and
            <span class="char" depiction="" char_type="physical"> still had her <span class="adj"> pretty red
                  cheeks. </span> </span> They said, <span class="quote"><q> We could not bury her in the
                  dark ground, </q></span> and they had a transparent coffin of glass made, <span class="auto" level="damsel"> so that she could be seen from all sides, </span> and they laid her in
            it, and wrote her name upon it in golden letters, and that she was a king’s daughter.
            Then
            they put the coffin out upon the mountain, and one of them always stayed by it and
            watched
            it. And birds came too, and wept for Snow-white; first an owl, then a raven, and last
            a
            dove. </p>
         <p>And now Snow-white lay a long, long time in the coffin, and <span class="char" depiction="" char_type="physical"> she did not change, but looked as if she were asleep; for she was
               as <span class="adj"> white as snow, as red as blood, and her hair was as black
                  as ebony. </span> </span> </p>
         <p>It happened, however, that a king’s son came into the forest, and went to the dwarfs’
            house
            to spend the night. He saw the coffin on the mountain, and the <span class="char" depiction="beauty"> <span class="adj"> beautiful </span>
               Snow-white </span> within it, and read what was written upon it in golden
            letters. Then he said to the dwarfs, <span class="auto" level="male_savior"> <span class="quote"><q> Let me have the
                     coffin, I will give you whatever you want for it. </q></span> But the dwarfs answered,
               <span class="quote"><q> We will not part with it for all the gold in the world.</q></span> Then he said,
               <span class="quote"><q> Let me have it as a gift, for I cannot live without seeing Snow-white. I will
                     honour and prize <span class="auto" level="damsel" auto_type="controlled" gender="female"> her
                        as my dearest possession. </span> </q></span> As he spoke in this way the good
               dwarfs took pity upon him, and gave him the coffin. </span> </p>
         <p>And now the King’s son had it carried away by his servants on their shoulders. And
            it
            happened that they stumbled over a tree-stump, and with the shock the poisonous piece
            of
            apple which Snow-white had bitten off came out of her throat. And before long she
            opened her
            eyes, lifted up the lid of the coffin, sat up, and was once more alive. <span class="quote"><q> Oh, heavens,
                  where am I? </q></span> she cried. The King’s son, full of joy, said, <span class="auto" level="male_savior"> <span class="quote"><q> You are with me, </q></span> and told her what had happened, and
               said, <span class="quote"><q> I love you more than everything in the world; come with me to my father’s
                     palace, you shall be my wife. </q></span> </span> </p>
         <p><span class="auto" level="societal_expectations"> And Snow-white was willing, and went with
               him, </span> and their wedding was held with great show and splendour. But
            Snow-white’s <span class="char" depiction=""> <span class="adj"> wicked </span>
               step-mother </span> was also bidden to the feast.  When she had arrayed herself in beautiful clothes she went before
            the Looking-glass, and said— <span class="quote"><q> Looking-glass, Looking-glass, on the wall, Who in
                  this land is the <span class="adj">fairest of all?</span></q></span> the
            glass answered— <span class="quote"><q> Oh, Queen, of all here the <span class="adj">
                     fairest </span> art thou, But the <span class="char" depiction="beauty">
                     <span class="adj"> young </span> Queen is <span class="adj"> fairer </span> by far </span> as I
                  trow. </q></span>  </p>
         <p>Then the  <span class="adj"> wicked </span>
            woman  uttered a curse, and was <span class="adj"> so wretched,
               so utterly wretched </span>, that she knew not what to do. At first she would not go
            to the wedding at all, but she had no peace, and must go to see the young Queen. And
            when
            she went in she knew Snow-white; and she stood still with 
            rage and fear, and could not stir. But iron slippers had already been put upon the
            fire, and they were brought in with tongs, and set before her. Then she was forced
            to
            put on the red-hot shoes, and dance until she dropped down dead.  </p>
      </section>
   </body>
</html>