<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en">
   <head>
      <title>The Young Slave</title>
      <ol>
         <li><a href="folklore_index.xhtml">Home</a></li>
         <li><a href="methodologies.xhtml">Methodologies</a></li>
         <li><a href="texts.xhtml">Texts</a></li>
         <li><a href="analysis.xhtml">Analysis</a></li>
         <li><a href="folklore_histories.xhtml">The Histories</a></li>
      </ol>
      <title>Nav Bar for Grimm and Original Fairytales (respectively)</title>
      <ol>
         <li><a href="littlebriarrose.xhtml">Little Briar Rose (Sleeping Beauty)</a></li>
         <li><a href="rapunzel6.xhtml">Rapunzel</a></li>
         <li><a href="snowwhite_grimm.xhtml">Little Snow-White (Snow White)</a></li>
         <li><a href="singingsoaring.xhtml">The Singing Sprining Lark(Beauty and the Beast)</a></li>
         <li><a href="redridingfirst.xhtml">Little Red-Cap (Red Riding Hood)</a></li>
      </ol>
      <ol>
         <li><a href="thesleepingbeautyinthewood.xhtml">The Sleeping Beauty in the Wood (Sleeping Beauty)</a></li>
         <li><a href="petrosinella2.xhtml">Petrosinella (Rapunzel)</a></li>
         <li><a href="snowwhite_original.xhtml">The Young Slave (Snow White)</a></li>
         <li><a href="beautyandbeast.xhtml">Beauty and the Beast</a></li>
         <li><a href="redriding_frenchadaptation.xhtml">Little Red Riding Hood (Red Riding Hood)</a></li>
      </ol>
      <link href="xsltstyle.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/><script src="folklore_script.js"></script><title>Toggable List of Elements and Attributes </title>
   </head>
   <body>
      <ul id="mainList">
         <li><strong>Characteristic</strong></li>
         <div id="charSublist" class="sublist"></div>
         <ul>
            <li>Depiction</li>
            <ul>
               <li>Beauty</li>
               <li>Innocent</li>
               <li>Naivity</li>
               <li>Maternal</li>
               <li>Emotional</li>
               <li>Clever</li>
               <li>Secluded</li>
               <li>Protective</li>
               <li>Brave</li>
               <li>Domesticity</li>
            </ul>
            <li>Gender</li>
            <ul>
               <li>Female</li>
               <li>Male</li>
            </ul>
            <li>Age</li>
            <ul>
               <li>Young</li>
               <li>Old</li>
            </ul>
            <li>Char_type</li>
            <ul>
               <li>Physical</li>
               <li>Nonphysical</li>
            </ul>
         </ul>
         <li><strong>Autonomy</strong></li>
         <div id="autoSublist" class="sublist">
            <ul>
               <li>Auto_type</li>
               <ul>
                  <li>Controlled</li>
                  <li>Free</li>
               </ul>
               <li>Level</li>
               <ul>
                  <li>Male_savior</li>
                  <li>Damsel</li>
                  <li>Evil</li>
                  <li>Religious</li>
                  <li>Heroine</li>
                  <li>Societal_expectations</li>
               </ul>
               <li>Gender</li>
               <ul>
                  <li>Female</li>
                  <li>Male</li>
               </ul>
            </ul>
         </div>
         <li><strong>Villainization</strong></li>
         <div id="villSublist" class="sublist">
            <ul>
               <li>Cause</li>
               <ul>
                  <li>Competition</li>
                  <li>Jealousy</li>
                  <li>Revenge</li>
                  <li>Unspecified</li>
                  <li>Sex</li>
                  <li>Power</li>
                  <li>Manipulation</li>
               </ul>
               <li>Gender</li>
               <ul>
                  <li>Female</li>
                  <li>Male</li>
               </ul>
            </ul>
         </div>
         <li><strong>Reproduction</strong></li>
         <div id="repSublist" class="sublist">
            <ul>
               <li>Rep_type</li>
               <ul>
                  <li>Menstruation</li>
                  <li>Childbirth</li>
                  <li>Sex</li>
               </ul>
            </ul>
         </div>
         <li><strong>Adjective</strong></li>
         <div id="adjSublist" class="sublist">
            <ul>
               <li>Gender</li>
               <ul>
                  <li>Female</li>
                  <li>Male</li>
               </ul>
            </ul>
         </div>
      </ul>
      <h1>The Young Slave</h1>
      <section>
         <p>In days of yore, and in times long gone before, there lived a baron of Serva-Scura,
            and he had a <span class="female"> young sister, a 
               damsel of uncommon beauty, who often fared to the gardens in company of other <span class="female">
                  young </span> damsels of her age. </span> One day of the days they went as usual, 
            and beheld a <span class="sex"> rose-tree which had a beautiful fully opened rose upon it </span>, 
            and they agreed to wager that whosoever should jump clear above the tree without damaging
            the rose would win so much. Then the
            damsels began to jump one after the other, but none could clear the tree; till it
            coming to
            Cilia's turn (thus was the baron's sister hight), she took a little longer distance,
            and ran
            quickly, and jumped, and cleared the tree without touching the rose, and only a single
            leaf fell
            to the ground. <span class="female">
               She quickly picked it up, and swallowed it before any of the others perceived aught,
               </span> and thus won the wager.</p>
         <p><span class="female"> Three days had hardly passed, when she felt that she was with
               child, and finding that such was the case she nearly died with grief, well wotting
               that she had
               done naught to bring such a catastrophe upon her, and she could not suppose in any
               way how this
               had occurred. Therefore she ran to the house of some fairies, her friends, and relating
               to them
               her case, they told her that there was no doubt but that she was with child of the
               leaf she had
               swallowed. </span> </p>
         <p>Cilia hearing this hid her state as long as it was possible, but the time came at
            length for her delivery, and she gave birth secretly to a <span class="female">
               beauteous woman-child, her face like a moon in her fourteenth night,
               </span> and she named her Lisa, and sent her to the fairies to be brought
            up. Now each of the fairies gave to the child a charm; but <span class="female">
               the last of them, wanting to run and see her, in so doing twisted the foot, and for
               the anguish of pain she 
               felt cursed her, saying that when she should reach her seventh year, her mother in
               combing her hair would forget the
               comb sticking in the hair on her head, and this would cause her to die. </span> And years went by till
            the time came, and the mishap took place, and the <span class="female"> wretched </span> mother was 
            in despair at this great misfortune, and after weeping and wailing, ordered seven
            crystal chests one within the other,
            and had her child put within them, and then the chest was laid in a distant chamber
            in the
            palace; and she kept the key in her pocket.</p>
         <p>But daily after this her health failed, her cark and
            care bringing her to the last step of her life; and when she felt her end drawing
            near, she sent
            for her brother, and said to him, <span class="quote"><q> O my brother, I feel death slowly and surely come upon me,
                  therefore I leave to thee all my belongings. Be thou the only lord and master; only
                  must thou
                  take a solemn oath that thou wilt never open the furtherest chamber in this palace,
                  of which I
                  consign to thee the key, which thou wilt keep within thy desk. </q></span> </p>
         <p>Her brother, who loved her
            dearly, gave her the required promise, and she bade him farewell and died.</p>
         <p>After a year had
            passed the baron took to himself a wife, and being one day invited to a hunt by some
            of his
            friends, he gave the palace in charge to his wife, begging her not to open the forbidden
            chamber, whose key was in his desk. <span class="female">
               But no sooner had he left the palace than dire suspicion
               entered in her mind, and turned by jealousy, and fired by curiosity (the first dower
               of
               womankind), she took the key, and opened the door, and beheld the seven crystal chests,
               through
               which she could perceive <span class="female">
                  a beauteous child, </span> lying as it were in a deep sleep. And she had grown 
               as any other child of her age would, and the chests had lengthened with her. </span> </p>
         <p>The <span class="female"> jealous woman, </span>
            sighting this <span class="female">
               charming creature, </span> cried, <span class="quote"><q> Bravo my priest; key in waistband, and ram within; this
                  is the reason why I was so earnestly begged not to open this door, so that I should
                  not behold
                  Mohammed, whom he worshippeth within these chests. </q></span></p>
         <p><span class="female">Thus saying, she pulled her out by the hair
               of her head; and whilst so doing the comb which her mother had left on her head fell
               off, and
               she came again to life,</span> and cried out, <span class="quote"><q>O mother mine, O mother mine.</q></span></p>
         <p><span class="female"> Answered the
               baroness, <span class="quote"><q> I'll give thee mamma and papa; </q></span> and embittered as a slave, and an-angered as a bitch
               keeping watch on her young, and with poison full as an asp, she at once cut off the
               damsel's
               hair, and gave her a good drubbing, and arrayed her in rags. Every day she beat her
               on her head,
               and gave her black eyes, and scratched her face and made her mouth to bleed just as
               if she had
               eaten raw pigeons. </span> </p>
         <p>But when her husband came back and saw this child so badly treated, he asked
            the reason of such cruelty; and she answered that <span class="damsel"> she was a slave-girl sent her
               by her aunt, so <span class="female"> wicked and perverse </span> that it was necessary to beat her so as 
               to keep her in order. </span> </p>
         <p>After a time
            the baron had occasion to go to a country fair, and he, being a <span class="male"> very noble and kind-hearted
               lord, </span> asked of all his household people from the highest to the lowest not leaving out
            even the
            cats, what thing they would like him to bring for them, and one bade him buy one thing,
            and
            another another, till at the last he came to the young slave-girl. </p>
         <p>But his wife did not act as a
            Christian should, and said, <span class="quote"><q> Put this slave in the dozen, and let us do all things within the
                  rule, as we all should like to make water in the same pot; leave her alone and let
                  us not fill
                  her with presumption.</q></span> But the lord, <span class="male"> being by nature kind </span>, 
            would ask the young slave what she should like him to bring her, and she replied,
            
            <span class="quote"><q> I should like to have a doll, a knife, and some pumice stone; and if thou 
                  shouldst forget it, mayst thou be unable to pass the river which will
                  be in thy way. </q></span> </p>
         <p>And the baron fared forth, and bought all the gifts he had promised to bring,
            but he forgot that which his niece had bade him bring; and when the lord on his way
            home came to
            the river, the river threw up stones, and carried away the trees from the mountain
            to the shore,
            and thus cast the basis of fear, and uplifted the wall of wonderment, so that it was
            impossible
            for the lord to pass that way; and <span class="male">
               he at last remembered the curse of the young slave, and
               turning back, bought her the three things, and then returned home, and gave to each
               the gifts he
               had brought. And he gave to Lisa also what pertained to her. </span> </p>
         <p>As soon as she had her gifts in her possession, she retired in the kitchen, and 
            <span class="damsel"> putting the doll before her, she began to <span class="female"> weep, and
                  wail, and lament, </span> telling that inanimate piece of wood the story of her travails, speaking as
               she would have done to a living being; and perceiving that the doll answered not,
               she took up
               the knife and sharpening it on the pumice stone, said, <span class="quote"><q>
                     <span class="female"> If thou wilt not answer me, 
                        I shall kill myself, and thus will end the feast; </span> </q></span> </span> and the doll swelled up as a 
            bagpipe, and at last answered, <span class="quote"><q> Yes, I did hear thee, I am not deaf. </q></span> </p>
         <p>Now this went on for several days, till one day
            the baron, who had one of his portraits hung up near the kitchen, heard all this weeping
            and
            talking of the young slave-girl, and wanting to see to whom she spake, he put his
            eye to the
            keyhole, and beheld Lisa with the doll before her, to whom she related how her mother
            had jumped
            over the rose-tree, how she had swallowed the leaf, how herself had been born, how
            the fairies
            had each given her a charm, how the youngest fairy had cursed her, how the comb had
            been left on
            her head by her mother, how she had been put within seven crystal chests and shut
            up in a
            distant chamber, how her mother had died, and how she had left the key to her brother.
            Then she
            spoke of his going a-hunting, and the <span class="jealousy"> wife's jealousy, </span> 
            how she disobeyed her husband's behest <span class="female"> and entered within the chamber, 
               and how she had cut her hair, and how she treated her like a
               slave and beat her cruelly, </span> and she wept and lamented saying, <span class="quote"><q> Answer me, O my doll; if not, I
                  shall kill myself with this knife; </q></span> and sharpening it on the pumice stone, she was going to slay
            herself, when <span class="male"> the baron kicked down the door, and snatched 
               the knife out of her hands, and bade her relate to him the story. </span> </p>
         <p>When she had ended, <span class="male"> he embraced her as his own niece, and led her
               out of his palace to the house of a relative, where he commanded that she should be
               well
               entreated so that she should become </span><span class="physical"> cheerful in mind
               and healthy of body, as owing to the ill treatment she had endured she had lost all
               strength and 
               healthful hue. </span> And Lisa, receiving kindly treatment, in a few months became as <span class="beauty">
               beautiful as a goddess, </span> and her uncle sent for her to come to his palace, and gave a great banquet in her
            honour, and 
            <span class="male"> presented her to his guests
               as his niece, and bade Lisa relate to them the story of her past troubles. </span> </p>
         <p>Hearing the cruelty
            with which she had been entreated by his wife, all the guests wept. And he bade his
            wife return
            to her family, <span class="female"> as for her jealousy and unseemly 
               behaviour </span> she was not <span class="male"> worthy </span> to be his mate; and
            <span class="female"> after a time gave to his niece a 
               <span class="physical"> handsome and worthy husband </span> whom she loved; which touched the
               level that: </span> </p>
         <p>When a man least goods of any kind expecteth, The heavens will pour upon him every
            grace.</p>
      </section>
   </body>
</html>