<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><ol xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <title>Navigation Bar</title>
   <li><a href="folklore_index.xhtml">Home</a></li>
   <li><a href="methodologies.xhtml">Methodologies</a></li>
   <li><a href="texts.xhtml">Texts</a></li>
   <li><a href="analysis.xhtml">Analysis</a></li>
   <li><a href="folklore_histories.xhtml">The Histories</a></li>
</ol><br xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"/><link xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" href="xsltstyle.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/><script xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" src="folklore_script.js"></script><title xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">Toggable List of Elements and Attributes </title><ul xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="mainList">
   <li><strong>Characteristic</strong></li>
   <div id="charSublist" class="sublist"></div>
   <ul>
      <li>Depiction</li>
      <ul>
         <li>Beauty</li>
         <li>Innocent</li>
         <li>Naivity</li>
         <li>Maternal</li>
         <li>Emotional</li>
         <li>Clever</li>
         <li>Secluded</li>
         <li>Protective</li>
         <li>Brave</li>
         <li>Domesticity</li>
      </ul>
      <li>Gender</li>
      <ul>
         <li>Female</li>
         <li>Male</li>
      </ul>
      <li>Age</li>
      <ul>
         <li>Young</li>
         <li>Old</li>
      </ul>
      <li>Char_type</li>
      <ul>
         <li>Physical</li>
         <li>Nonphysical</li>
      </ul>
   </ul>
   <li><strong>Autonomy</strong></li>
   <div id="autoSublist" class="sublist">
      <ul>
         <li>Auto_type</li>
         <ul>
            <li>Controlled</li>
            <li>Free</li>
         </ul>
         <li>Level</li>
         <ul>
            <li>Male_savior</li>
            <li>Damsel</li>
            <li>Evil</li>
            <li>Religious</li>
            <li>Heroine</li>
            <li>Societal_expectations</li>
         </ul>
         <li>Gender</li>
         <ul>
            <li>Female</li>
            <li>Male</li>
         </ul>
      </ul>
   </div>
   <li><strong>Villainization</strong></li>
   <div id="villSublist" class="sublist">
      <ul>
         <li>Cause</li>
         <ul>
            <li>Competition</li>
            <li>Jealousy</li>
            <li>Revenge</li>
            <li>Unspecified</li>
            <li>Sex</li>
            <li>Power</li>
            <li>Manipulation</li>
         </ul>
         <li>Gender</li>
         <ul>
            <li>Female</li>
            <li>Male</li>
         </ul>
      </ul>
   </div>
   <li><strong>Reproduction</strong></li>
   <div id="repSublist" class="sublist">
      <ul>
         <li>Rep_type</li>
         <ul>
            <li>Menstruation</li>
            <li>Childbirth</li>
            <li>Sex</li>
         </ul>
      </ul>
   </div>
   <li><strong>Adjective</strong></li>
   <div id="adjSublist" class="sublist">
      <ul>
         <li>Gender</li>
         <ul>
            <li>Female</li>
            <li>Male</li>
         </ul>
      </ul>
   </div>
</ul><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <title>rapunzel</title>
      <link href="../XSLT/xsltstyle.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
   </head>
   <body>
      <section>
         <h2>Jacob and Wilhelm Grimm</h2>
         <h2>Giambattista Basile</h2>
      </section>
      <main>
         <div>
            <h3>Rapunzel</h3>
            <p> There were once a man and a woman who <span class="female">wished for a child</span>.
                At length the
               woman hoped <span class="female">that God was about to grant her
                  desire</span>. These people had a little window at the back of their house from
               which a splendid garden could be seen, which was full of the most beautiful flowers
               and
               herbs. It was, however, surrounded by a high wall, and no one dared to go into it
               because it
               belonged to an enchantress , <span class="female">who had great power</span> and was 
               dreaded
               by all the world. One day the woman was standing by this window and
               looking down into the garden, when <span class="female">she
                  saw a bed which was planted with the most beautiful rampion - rapunzel , and it looked
                  so fresh and green that she longed for it</span>, and had the greatest desire
               to eat some. This desire increased every day
               ,
               and as she knew that she could not get any of it, <span class="female">she quite pined away, and began to look pale and
                  miserable</span>.Then her husband was alarmed, and asked, <span class="quote"><q>what ails
                     you, dear wife.</q></span>
               <span class="quote"><q>Ah,</q></span> she replied, <span class="quote"><q>if I can't eat some of the rampion, which is in the
                     garden behind our house, I shall die .</q></span> The man, who loved her
               thought, <span class="male">sooner than let your wife die, bring
                  her some of the rampion yourself, let it cost what it will</span>. At twilight, he
               clambered down over the wall into the garden of the enchantress ,<span class="male"> hastily clutched a handful of rampion, and took it to
                  his wife</span>. She at once made herself a salad of it, and ate it
               <span class="class">greedily</span>. It tasted so good to her - so very good, that the next
               day she longed for it three times as much as before. If he was to have any rest, her
               husband
               must once more descend into the garden. In the gloom of evening, therefore, he let
               himself
               down again. But when he had clambered down the wall he was terribly afraid, for he
               saw the
               enchantress standing before him.<span class="quote"><q>How
                     can you dare, said she with angry look, descend into my garden and
                     steal my rampion like a thief. You shall suffer for it.</q></span>
               <span class="quote"><q>Ah,</q></span> answered he, <span class="quote"><q>let mercy take the place of justice, I only made up
                     my mind to do it out of necessity. My wife saw your rampion from the window, and felt
                     such a longing for it that she would have died if she had not got some to eat." Then
                     the
                     enchantress allowed her anger to be softened, and said to him,</q></span>
               <span class="quote"><q>if the case be as you say, I will
                     allow you to take away with you as much rampion as you will, only I make one
                     condition, you must give me the child which your wife will bring into the world.
                     <span class="female"> It shall be well treated,
                        and I will care for it like a mother.</span>"</q></span>
               The man in his terror consented to
               everything, and when the woman
               was brought to bed, the enchantress appeared at once, gave the child the name of rapunzel
               ,
               and took it away with
               her.Rapunzel grew into <span class="female">the most beautiful child under the sun</span>. When
               <span class="female">she was twelve years old</span>,
               the enchantress <span class="female"><span class="female">shut her into a tower, which lay in a forest,
                     and had neither stairs nor door, but quite at the top was a little
                     window.</span></span> When the enchantress wanted to go in, she placed
               herself beneath it and cried, <span class="quote"><q>rapunzel , rapunzel , let down your hair to me.</q></span>
               Rapunzel had <span class="female">magnificent long hair,
                  fine as spun gold,</span> and when she heard the voice of the enchantress she
               unfastened <span class="female">her braided tresses, wound
                  them round one of the hooks of the window above, and then the hair fell twenty ells
                  down</span>, and the enchantress climbed up by it.</p>
            <p>After a year or two, it came to pass that the king's son rode through the forest and
               passed
               by the tower.Then he heard a song, which was so charming that he stood still and listened.
               This was rapunzel , who in her solitude passed her time
               in<span class="female"> letting <span class="female">her sweet voice</span>
                  resound</span> The king's son wanted to climb up to her, and looked for the
               door of the tower, but none was to be found . He rode home, but the
               singing had so deeply touched his heart, that every day he went out into the forest
               and
               listened to it.Once when he was thus standing behind a tree, he saw that an enchantress
               came
               there, and he heard how she cried, <span class="quote"><q>rapunzel , rapunzel , let down your
                     hair.</q></span></p>
            <p>Then rapunzel let down the braids of her hair, and the enchantress climbed up to her.
               If that
               is the ladder by which one mounts, I too will try my fortune , said he, and
               the next day when it began to grow dark, he went to the tower and cried, <span class="quote"><q>rapunzel ,
                     rapunzel , let down your hair.</q></span></p>
            <p> Immediately the hair fell down and the king's son climbed up. At first rapunzel was
               terribly
               frightened when a man, such as her eyes had never yet beheld ,
               came to her. But the king's son began to talk to her quite like a friend, and told
               her that
               his heart had been so stirred that it had let him have no rest
               , and he<span class="female"> had been forced to see her</span>
               .
               Then rapunzel lost her fear, and when he asked her if she would take him for her husband,
               and she saw that he was <span class="male">young</span>
               and <span class="male">handsome</span>, she thought,
               he will love me more than <span class="female">old</span>
               dame gothel does . And she said yes, and laid her hand in his. She said,
               <span class="quote"><q>I will willingly go away with you, <span class="female">
                        but I do not know how to get down.</span>" </q></span>
               <span class="quote"><q>Bring with you a skein of silk every time that you come, and I will weave a ladder
                     with it, and when <span class="female">that is ready
                        I will descend, and you will take me on your horse</span>.</q></span> They
               agreed that until that time he should come to her every evening, for the old <span class="female">woman</span> came by day. The enchantress remarked
               nothing of this, until once rapunzel said to her, <span class="quote"><q>tell me, dame gothel , how it
                     happens that <span class="female">you are so much
                        heavier</span>
                      for me to draw up than the young king's son  - he
                     is with me in a moment.</q></span>
               <span class="quote"><q>Ah. You wicked child,</q></span> cried the enchantress . <span class="quote"><q>What do I hear you say.
                     I thought <span class="female">I had separated you from all the world
                        </span>, and yet you have deceived
                     me.</q></span> In her anger she clutched rapunzel 's <span class="female">beautiful tresses,</span>
               <span class="female">wrapped them twice round her left hand, seized a pair
                  of scissors with the right, and snip, snap,
                  
                  they were cut off, and the <span class="class">lovely</span> braids lay on the
                  ground.</span>
               <span class="female"> And she was so pitiless that <span class="female">she took poor rapunzel into a desert where she
                     had to live in great grief and misery</span></span>.</p>
            <p>On the same day that she cast out rapunzel ,however, the enchantress fastened the
               braids of
               hair, which she had cut off , to the hook of the window, and
               when the king's son came and cried, <span class="quote"><q>rapunzel , rapunzel , let down your hair,she let
                     the hair down.</q></span></p>
            <p>The king's son ascended, but instead of finding his dearest rapunzel , he found the
               enchantress , <span class="female">who gazed at him with
                  wicked and venomous looks</span>. <span class="quote"><q>Aha</q></span>, <span class="female">she cried mockingly</span>, <span class="quote"><q>you would fetch your dearest, but
                     the <span class="class">beautiful</span> bird sits no longer singing in the nest.
                     The cat has got it, and will scratch out your eyes as well.
                     <span class="female">Rapunzel is lost to you. You will
                        never see her again.</span></q></span> The king's son was beside himself with pain,
               and in his despair he leapt down from the tower.<span class="male"> He escaped with his life, but the thorns into which he fell pierced his
                  eyes</span>
               . Then he wandered quite blind about the
               forest, ate nothing but roots and berries, and did naught but lament and weep over
               the loss
               of his
               <span class="class">dearest
                  wife</span>. Thus he roamed about in <span class="class">misery</span> for some years,
               and at length came to the desert where rapunzel , <span class="female">with the twins to which she had given birth
                  , a boy and a girl</span>, lived in
               wretchedness . He heard a voice, and it seemed so familiar to him that he
               went towards it, and when he approached, rapunzel knew him and fell on his neck and
               wept.Two
               of her tears wetted his eyes and they grew clear again, and he could see with them
               as
               before.
               <span class="male">He led her to his kingdom where he was joyfully
                  received</span>, and they lived for a long time afterwards, happy and contented .</p>
         </div>
         <div>
            <h3>Parsley [Petrosinella]</h3>
            <p>There was once upon a time a woman named Pascadozzia. As she was standing one day
               at a
               window, which looked into the garden of an ogress, <span class="female">she
                  saw a <span class="class">beautiful</span> bed of parsley, for which she took such a longing
                  that she was on the point of fainting away</span>; and being <span class="female">unable to resist
                  her desire</span>,
               she watched until the ogress went out, and then plucked a handful of it.</p>
            <p>But when <span class="female">the ogress came home, and was going to cook her pottage</span>, she
               found that some one had been at the parsley, and said, <span class="quote"><q>Ill luck to me but I'll catch
                     this <span class="class">long-fingered</span> rogue, and
                     make him repent it, and teach him to his cost that every one should eat off his own
                     platter, and not meddle with other folks' cups.</q></span></p>
            <p>The <span class="class">poor</span> woman went again and again down into the garden, until one
               morning the ogress met her, and in a <span class="female">furious
                  rage</span> exclaimed, <span class="quote"><q><span class="female">Have I
                        caught you at last, you thief, you rogue? Prithee do you pay the rent of the garden,
                        that you come in this impudent way and steal my plants? <span class="female">
                           <span class="female">By
                              my faith</span>, but I'll make you do
                           penance!</span></span></q></span></p>
            <p><span class="class">Poor</span> Pascadozzia, in a terrible fright, began to make excuses, saying
               that neither from gluttony nor the craving of hunger had <span class="female">she
                  been tempted by the devil</span> to commit this fault, but fear <span class="female">she had lest the child should be born with a crop of parsley on its
                  face</span>; and she added that the ogress ought rather to thank her, for not
               having given her sore eyes. <span class="quote"><q>Words are but wind,</q></span> answered the ogress; <span class="quote"><q>I
                     am not to be caught with such prattle; you have closed the balance sheet of
                     life,<span class="female"> unless you
                        promise to give me the child you bring forth, girl or boy, whichever it may
                        be.</span></q></span></p>
            <p><span class="female"><span class="class">Poor</span>Pascadozzia</span>, in
               order to escape the peril in which she found herself, swore with one hand upon another
               to
               keep the promise. So the ogress let her go free. But when her time was come, <span class="childbirth">Pascadozzia gave birth to a little girl</span>,
               <span class="female">so beautiful that she was a joy to look
                  upon</span>, who, from having a fine sprig of parsley on her bosom, was named
               Parsley. And the <span class="class">little</span> girl grew from day to day, until when
               <span class="female">she was seven years old</span> her mother sent her
               to school; and every time she went along the street and met the ogress, <span class="female"><span class="female">the old woman</span> said to her, <span class="quote"><q>Tell your mother to
                        remember her
                        promise.</q></span></span></p>
            <p><span class="female">And she went on repeating this message so often</span>, that the
               <span class="class">poor</span> mother, <span class="female">having no longer patience to listen to the same
                  tale</span>, said one day
               to Parsley, <span class="quote"><q>If you meet the <span class="female">old woman</span> as
                     usual, and she reminds you of the <span class="class">hateful</span> promise, answer her,
                     'Take it!'</q></span>When Parsley,<span class="female">
                  who dreamt of no ill,</span> met the ogress again, and heard her repeat the
               same words, <span class="female">she answered
                  <span class="class">innocently</span> as her mother had told her</span>;
               whereupon the ogress, <span class="female">seizing her by her hair</span>,
               <span class="female">carried her off to a wood, which the sun never entered.
                  Then she put the <span class="class">poor</span> girl into a tower, which she caused to arise by
                  her art, <span class="female">and which had neither gate nor ladder, but
                     only a little window</span>,through which she ascended and descended by means
                  of Parsley's hair</span>, which was very long, as the sailor is used to run up and
               down the mast of a ship.</p>
            <p>Now it happened one day, when the ogress had left the tower, <span class="female">that
                  Parsley put her head out of the little window, and let loose her tresses in the
                  sun</span>; and the son of <span class="male">a prince passing by saw
                  these two golden banners, which invited all souls to enlist under the standard of
                  love</span>; and beholding with amazement in the midst of those <span class="female">gleaming waves a siren's face, that enchanted all hearts, he fell
                  <span class="class">desperately</span> in love with such
                  <span class="class">wonderful</span> beauty</span>; and sending her a memorial of
               sighs, she decreed to receive him into favor.</p>
            <p>Matters went on so well with the prince,<span class="female"> that there was soon a nodding of heads and kissing
                  of hands, thanks and offerings, hopes and promises, soft words and compliments</span>.
               And when this had continued for several days, Parsley and the prince
               became <span class="sex">so intimate that they made an appointment to meet, and agreed that it should be at
                  night</span>, and that <span class="female">
                  Parsley should give the ogress some poppy juice</span>, and draw up the
               prince with her tresses. So when the appointed hour came, the prince went to the tower,
               where Parsley, letting fall her hair at a given signal, he seized it with both his
               hands,
               and cried, <span class="quote"><q>Draw up!</q></span> And when he was drawn up, <span class="sex">he crept through the little
                  window into the chamber.</span></p>
            <p>The next morning early, the prince descended by the same golden ladder, to go his
               way home.
               And having repeated these visits many times, <span class="female">a gossip of the ogress, who was for ever prying
                  into things that did not concern her</span>, and
               poking her nose into every corner, got to find out the
               secret, and told the ogress to be upon the lookout, for that Parsley was courted by
               <span class="male">a youth</span>.</p>
            <p>The ogress thanked the gossip for the information, and said she would take good care
               to stop
               up the road; and as to Parsley, <span class="female">it was impossible for her
                  to escape, as she had laid a spell upon her</span>, so
               that, unless she had in her hand the three gallnuts which were in a rafter in the
               kitchen,
               <span class="female"> it would be labor lost to attempt to get away.</span></p>
            <p>Whilst they were talking thus together, <span class="female">Parsley, 
                  who stood with her ears wide open, and had
                  some suspicion of the gossip, overheard all that passed</span>. And when night had
               spread out her black garments, and the prince had come as usual, <span class="female">she made him climb onto the rafters and find the gallnuts, knowing
                  well what effect they would have, as she had been enchanted by the
                  ogress</span>. Then, having made a rope ladder, <span class="female">
                  they both descended to the ground, took to their heels, and scampered off towards
                  the
                  city</span>.</p>
            <p>But the gossip happening to see them come out, set up a loud halloo, and began to
               shout and
               make such a noise that the ogress awoke; and seeing that Parsley had fled, she descended
               by
               the same ladder, which was fastened to the window, and set off running after the
               lovers, who, when they saw her coming at their heels faster than a horse
               let loose, gave themselves up for lost. <span class="female">But Parsley, recollecting
                  the gallnuts, quickly threw one on the ground</span>, and lo! instantly a Corsican
               bulldog started up, -- a terrible beast! -- which with open jaws and barking loud
               flew at
               the ogress as if to swallow her at a
               mouthful. 
               But the <span class="female">old woman</span>, who was <span class="female">more
                  <span class="class">cunning</span> and <span class="class">spiteful</span> than the
                  devil</span>,
               <span class="female"><span class="female">
                     put her hand into her pocket, and pulling out a piece of
                     bread, gave it to the dog,</span> which made him hang his tail and allay his
                  fury.</span></p>
            <p>Then she turned to run after the fugitives again; <span class="female">but Parsley,
                  <span class="female">seeing her approach, threw the second gallnut on
                     the ground</span></span>,
               and lo! a fierce lion arose, who, lashing the earth with his tail, and shaking his mane, and
               opening wide his jaws a yard apart, was just preparing to make a slaughter of the
               ogress; <span class="female">when, turning quickly back,<span class="female"> 
                     she stripped the skin off an ass that was
                     grazing in the middle of a meadow, and ran at the lion</span></span>, who, fancying
               it a real jackass, was so frightened that he bounded away as fast
               as he could.</p>
            <p>The ogress, having leaped over this second ditch, turned again to pursue the
               <span class="class">poor</span> lovers, who, hearing the clatter of her heels and seeing
               the cloud of dust that rose up to the sky, conjectured that she was coming again.
               But the
               <span class="female">old woman</span>, who was every moment in dread lest
               the lion should pursue her, had not taken off the ass's skin; <span class="female">and
                  when Parsley now threw down the third gallnut</span>, there sprang up a wolf, who,
               without giving the ogress time to play any new trick, gobbled her up just as she was,
               in the
               shape of a jackass.</p>
            <p><span class="female">So the lovers, being now freed from danger</span>,
               <span class="female"> went their
                  way <span class="class">leisurely</span> and <span class="class">quietly</span></span> to the kingdom of the
               prince, where, with his
               father's <span class="class">free</span> consent, he took Parsley to wife; and thus, after all these storms of fate,
               they experienced the truth, that One hour in port, the sailor freed from fears Forgets
               the
               tempests of a hundred years. Zeza's story was listened to with such delight to the
               end,
               that, had it even continued for an hour longer, the time would have appeared only
               a
               moment.</p>
         </div>
      </main>
   </body>
</html>