<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <title>beautyandthebeast</title>
      <link href="../XSLT/xsltstyle.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
   </head>
   <body>
      <section>
         <h2>Jacob and Wilhelm Grimm</h2>
         <h2>Jeanne-Marie LePrince de Beaumont</h2>
      </section>
      <main>
         <div>
            <h3>The Singing, Springing Lark</h3>
            <p>There was once upon a time a man who was about to set out on a long
               journey, and on parting he asked his three daughters what he should
               bring back with him for them.  Whereupon the <span class="adj">eldest</span> wished for
               pearls, the second wished for diamonds, but the third said, <span class="quote"><q>dear
                     father, I should like a singing, soaring lark.</q></span>  The father said, <span class="quote"><q>yes,
                     if I can get it, you shall have it,</q></span> kissed all three, and set out.</p>
            <p>Now when the time had come for him to be on his way home again, he
               had brought pearls and diamonds for the two eldest, but he had sought
               everywhere in vain for a singing, soaring lark for the <span class="female">,youngest and
                  he was very unhappy about it, for she was his favorite child.</span>  
               Then his road lay through a forest, and in the midst of it was a splendid
               castle, and near the castle stood a tree, but quite on the top of the
               tree, he saw a singing, soaring lark.  <span class="quote"><q>Aha, you come just at the
                     right moment,</q></span> he said, quite delighted, and called to his servant to
               climb up and catch the little creature.</p>
            <p>But as he approached the tree, a lion leapt from beneath it, shook
               himself, and roared till the leaves on the trees trembled.  <span class="quote"><q>He who
                     tries to steal my singing, soaring lark, he cried, will I devour.</q></span>
               Then the man said, <span class="quote"><q>I did not know that the bird belonged to you.  I
                     will make amends for the wrong I have done and ransom myself with a
                     large sum of money, only spare my life.</q></span> The lion said, <span class="quote"><q>nothing can
                     save you, unless you will promise to give me for my own what first
                     meets you on your return home, and if you will do that, I will grant
                     you your life, <span class="auto" auto_type="controlled" gender="female">and you shall have the bird for your daughter,</span> into
                     the bargain.</q></span>  But the man hesitated and said, <span class="quote"><q>that might be my
                     <span class="female">youngest daughter, she loves me best,</span> and always runs to meet me on
                     my return home.</q></span></p>
            <p>The servant, however, was terrified and said, <span class="quote"><q>why should your
                     daughter be the very one to meet you, it might as easily be a cat, or
                     dog.</q></span> Then the man allowed himself to be persuaded, took the singing,
               soaring lark, and promised to give the lion whatsoever should first
               meet him on his return home.</p>
            <p>When he reached home and entered his house, the first who met him was
               no other than his <span class="female"> youngest and dearest daughter, who came running up,
                  kissed and embraced him, and when she saw that he had brought with
                  him a singing, soaring lark, she was beside herself with joy.</span>  The
               father, however, could not rejoice, but began to weep, and said, <span class="quote"><q>my
                     dearest child, I have bought the little bird dear.  In return for it,
                     <span class="auto" auto_type="controlled" gender="female">I have been obliged to promise you to a savage lion, and when he has
                        you he will tear you in pieces and devour you,</span></q></span> and he told her all,
               just as it had happened, and begged her not to go there, come what
               might.</p>
            <p><span class="auto" level="heroine" auto_type="free" gender="female">But she consoled him and said, <span class="quote"><q>dearest father, indeed your promise
                        must be fulfilled.  I will go thither and soften the lion, so that I
                        may return to you safely.</q></span> <span class="female"> Next morning she had the road pointed out
                     to her, took leave, and went fearlessly</span> out into the forest.</span>  The
               lion, however, was an enchanted prince and was by day a lion, and all
               his people were lions with him, but in the night they resumed their
               natural human shapes.</p>
            <p>On her arrival she was kindly received and led into the castle.  When
               night came, the lion turned into a handsome man, and their wedding
               was celebrated with great magnificence.  They lived happily together,
               remained awake at night, and slept in the daytime.  One day he came
               and said, <span class="quote"><q>to-morrow there is a feast in your father's house, because
                     your eldest sister is to be married, and if you are inclined to go
                     there, my lions shall conduct you.</q></span> <span class="auto" auto_type="free" gender="female"> She said, <span class="quote"><q>yes, I should very much
                        like to see my father again,</q></span> and went thither, accompanied by the
                  lions. </span></p>
            <p>There was great joy when she arrived, for they had all believed that
               she had been torn in pieces by the lion, and had long ceased to live.
               But she told them what a handsome husband she had, and how well off
               she was, remained with them while the wedding-feast lasted, and then
               <span class="auto" auto_type="free" gender="female"> went back again to the forest.</span></p>
            <p>When the second daughter was about to be married, and she was again
               invited to the wedding, she said to the lion, <span class="quote"><q><span class="auto" auto_type="free" gender="female"> this time I will not be
                        alone, you must come with me.</span></q></span>  The lion, however, said that it was
               too dangerous for him, for if when there a ray from a burning candle
               fell on him, he would be changed into a dove, and for seven years
               long would have to fly about with the doves.  She said, <span class="quote"><q>ah, but do
                     come with me, I will take great care of you, and guard you from all
                     light.</q></span>  <span class="auto" level="societal_expectations" auto_type="free"> So they went away together, and took with them their little
                  child as well.</span></p>
            <p><span class="auto" auto_type="free" gender="female">She had a room built there,</span> so strong and thick that no ray could
               pierce through it, in this he was to shut himself up when the candles
               were lit for the wedding-feast.  But the door was made of green wood
               which warped and left a little crack which no one noticed.  The
               wedding was celebrated with magnificence, but when the procession
               with all its candles and torches came back from church, and passed by
               this apartment, a ray touched him, he was transformed in an instant,
               and when she came in and looked for him, she did not see him, but a
               white dove was sitting there.  The dove said to her, for seven years
               must I fly about the world, but at every seventh step that you take I
               will let fall a <span class="rep" rep_type="menstruation">drop of red blood</span> and a white feather, and these will
               show you the way, and if you follow the trace you can release me.
               Thereupon the dove flew out at the door,<span class="auto" auto_type="controlled" gender="female"> and she followed him, and at
                  every seventh step a <span class="rep" rep_type="menstruation">red drop of blood</span> and a little white feather
                  fell down and showed her the way.</span></p>
            <p><span class="auto" level="heroine" auto_type="controlled" gender="female">So she went continually further and further in the wide world, never
                  looking about her or resting,</span> and the seven years were almost past,
               then she rejoiced and thought that they would soon be saved, and yet
               they were so far from it.  Once when they were thus moving onwards,
               no little feather and <span class="rep" rep_type="menstruation">no drop of red blood fell</span>, and when she raised
               her eyes the dove had disappeared. <span class="auto" level="heroine" auto_type="free" gender="female">And as she thought to herself, in
                  this no man can help you, she climbed up to the sun, and said to him,
                  <span class="quote"><q>you shine into every crevice, and over every peak, have you not seen
                        a white dove flying.</q></span></span></p>
            <p><span class="quote"><q>No,</q></span> said the sun, <span class="quote"><q>I have seen none, but I present you with a casket,
                     open it when you are in sorest need.</q></span>  <span class="auto" auto_type="free" gender="female">Then she thanked the sun, and
                  went on until evening came and the moon appeared, she then asked her,
                  <span class="quote"><q>you shine the whole night through, and on every field and forest,
                        have you not seen a white dove flying.</q></span></span></p>
            <p><span class="quote"><q>No,</q></span> said the moon, <span class="quote"><q>I have seen no dove, but here I give you an egg,
                     break it when you are in great need.</q></span>  <span class="auto" auto_type="free" gender="female">She thanked the moon, and went
                  on until the night wind came up and blew on her, then she said to it,
                  <span class="quote"><q>you blow over every tree and under every leaf, have you not seen a
                        white dove flying.</q></span></span>  <span class="quote"><q>No,</q></span> said the night wind, <span class="quote"><q>I have seen none, but I
                     will ask the three other winds, perhaps they have seen it.</q></span></p>
            <p>The east wind and the west wind came, and had seen nothing, but the
               south wind said, <span class="quote"><q>I have seen the white dove, it has flown to the red
                     sea, where it has become a lion again, for the seven years are over,
                     and the lion is there fighting with a dragon, the dragon, however, is
                     an enchanted princess.</q></span>  The night wind then said to her, <span class="quote"><q>I will
                     advise you, go to the red sea, on the right bank are some tall reeds,
                     count them, break off the eleventh, and strike the dragon with it,
                     then the lion will be able to subdue it, and both then will regain
                     their human form.  After that, look round and you will see the
                     griffin which is by the red sea, swing yourself, with your beloved,
                     on to his back, and the bird will carry you over the sea to your own
                     home.  Here is a nut for you, when you are above the center of the
                     sea, let the nut fall, it will immediately shoot up, and a tall
                     nut-tree will grow out of the water on which the griffin may rest,
                     for if he cannot rest, he will not be strong enough to carry you
                     across, and if you forget to throw down the nut, he will let you fall
                     into the sea.</q></span></p>
            <p><span class="auto" auto_type="controlled" gender="female">Then she went thither, and found everything as the night wind had
                  said.</span>  She counted the reeds by the sea, and cut off the eleventh,
               struck the dragon therewith, whereupon the lion conquered it, and
               immediately both of them regained their human shapes.  But when the
               princess, who hitherto had been the dragon, was released from
               enchantment, <span class="auto" level="evil" auto_type="free" gender="female">she took the youth by the arm, seated herself on the
                  griffin, and carried him off with her.</span></p>
            <p>There stood the <span class="female">poor maiden who had wandered so far and was again
                  forsaken.  She sat down and cried,</span> but at last she took courage and
               said, <span class="quote"><q>still I will go as far as the wind blows and as long as the
                     cock crows, until I find him,</q></span> <span class="auto" auto_type="free" gender="female">and she went forth by long, long roads,
                  until at last she came to the castle where both of them were living
                  together,</span> there she heard that soon a feast was to be held, in which
               they would celebrate their wedding, but she said, <span class="auto" auto_type="controlled" gender="female"> <span class="quote"><q>God still helps me,</q></span>
                  and opened the casket that the sun had given her. A dress lay
                  therein as brilliant as the sun itself.  So she took it out and put
                  it on, and went up into the castle,</span> and everyone, even the bride
               herself, looked at her with astonishment.</p>
            <p>The dress pleased the bride so well that she thought it might do for
               her wedding-dress, and asked if it was for sale.  <span class="auto" auto_type="free" gender="female"><span class="quote"><q>Not for money or
                        land,</q></span> answered she, <span class="quote"><q>but for flesh and blood.</q></span>  The bride asked her
                  what she meant by that, so she said, <span class="quote"><q>let me sleep a night in the
                        chamber where the bridegroom sleeps.</q></span></span>  The bride would not, yet wanted
               very much to have the dress, at last she consented, but the page was
               to give the prince a sleeping-draught.</p>
            <p>When it was night, therefore, and the youth was already asleep, she
               was led into the chamber, she seated herself on the bed and said, <span class="auto" auto_type="controlled" gender="female"><span class="quote"><q>I
                        have followed after you for seven years.  I have been to the sun and
                        the moon, and the four winds, and have enquired for you, and have
                        helped you against the dragon, will you, then quite forget me.</q></span></span>  But
               the prince slept so soundly that it only seemed to him as if the wind
               were whistling outside in the fir-trees.</p>
            <p>When therefore day broke, she was led out again, and had to give up
               the golden dress. <span class="female">And as that even had been of no avail, she was
                  sad, went out into a meadow, sat down there, and wept.</span>  <span class="auto" auto_type="free" gender="female">While she was
                  sitting there, she thought of the egg which the moon had given her,
                  she opened it,</span> and there came out a clucking hen with twelve chickens
               all of gold, and they ran about chirping, and crept again under the
               old hen's wings, nothing more beautiful was ever seen in the world.
               Then she arose, and drove them through the meadow before her, until
               the bride looked out of the window.</p>
            <p>The little chickens pleased her so much that she immediately came
               down and asked if they were for sale.  <span class="auto" auto_type="free" gender="female"><span class="quote"><q>Not for money or land, but for
                        flesh and blood, let me sleep another night in the chamber where the
                        bridegroom sleeps.</q></span></span>  The bride said, yes, <span class="auto" level="evil" auto_type="free" gender="female">intending to cheat her as on
                  the former evening.</span>  But when the prince went to bed he asked the
               page what the murmuring and rustling in the night had been.  On this
               the page told all, that he had been forced to give him a
               sleeping-draught, because a poor girl had slept secretly in the
               chamber, and that he was to give him another that night.  The prince
               said, <span class="quote"><q>pour out the draught by the bed-side.</q></span></p>
            <p>At night, she was again led in, and when she began to relate how ill
               all had fared with her, he immediately recognized his <span class="adj">beloved</span> wife by
               her voice, sprang up and cried, <span class="quote"><q>now I really am released.  I have
                     been as it were in a dream, for the strange princess has <span class="auto" level="evil" auto_type="free">bewitched me</span>
                     so that I have been compelled to forget you, but <span class="auto" auto_type="controlled" gender="male">God has delivered me
                        from the spell at the right time.</span></q></span></p>
            <p><span class="auto" auto_type="controlled">Then they both left the castle secretly in the night, for they feared
                  the father of the princess, who was a sorcerer, and they seated
                  themselves on the griffin which bore them across the red sea, and
                  when they were in the midst of it, she let fall the nut.  Immediately
                  a tall nut-tree grew up, whereon the bird rested, and then carried
                  them home,</span> where they found their child, who had grown tall and
               beautiful, and they lived thenceforth happily until their death.</p>
         </div>
         <div>
            <h3>Beauty and the Beast</h3>
            <p>There was once a <span class="adj">very rich</span> merchant, who had six children, three sons,
               and three daughters; being a man of sense, he spared no cost for their education,
               but gave them
               all kinds of masters. <span class="female">His daughters were extremely handsome, especially the youngest; when she was
                  little, every body admired her, and called her _The little Beauty_; so that, as she
                  grew up,
                  she still went by the name of _Beauty_,</span>
               which made her sisters very
               jealous. The youngest, as she was <span class="adj">handsome</span>, was also
               better than her sisters. The two eldest had a
               great deal of pride, because they were rich. <span class="auto" level="evil" auto_type="free" gender="female">They gave themselves ridiculous airs, and would not visit other merchants'
                  daughters, nor keep company with any but persons of quality. They went out every day
                  upon
                  parties of pleasure, because she spent the greatest part of her time in reading good
                  books.
                  As it was known that they were to have great fortunes, several eminent merchants made
                  their
                  addresses to them; but the two eldest said they would never marry, unless they could
                  meet
                  with a Duke, or an Earl at least.</span> Beauty <span class="female">very civilly thanked them that
                  courted her, and told them she was too young yet to marry,</span> but <span class="auto" auto_type="free" gender="female"> chose to stay with her father a few years
                  longer.</span></p>
            <p>All at once the merchant lost his whole fortune, excepting a small country-house at
               a great
               distance from town, and told his children, with tears in his eyes, they most go there
               and work
               for their living. The two eldest answered, that they would not leave the town, for they had several lovers, who they were sure would
               be glad
               to have them, though they had no fortune; but in this they were mistaken, for
               their lovers slighted and forsook them in their poverty. As they were not beloved
               on account of
               their pride, every body said, <span class="quote"><q>they do not deserve to be pitied, we are glad to see their
                     pride humbled, let them go and give themselves quality airs in milking the cows and
                     minding
                     their dairy. But, (added they,) we are extremely concerned for Beauty, <span class="female">she was such a charming,
                        sweet-tempered creature, spoke so kindly to poor people, and was of such an affable,
                        obliging disposition.</span></q></span> Nay, several gentlemen would have married
               her, though they knew she had not a penny; but <span class="auto" level="societal_expectations" auto_type="free" gender="female">she told them she could not think of leaving her poor father in
                  his misfortunes, but was determined to go along with him into the country to comfort
                  and
                  attend him.</span> Poor Beauty at first was sadly grieved at the loss of her fortune;
               <span class="quote"><q>but, (she said to herself,) were I to cry ever so much, that would not make things
                     better, I must try to make myself happy without a fortune.</q></span> When they came to their
               country-house, the merchant and his three sons applied themselves to husbandry and
               tillage; and
               <span class="auto" level="societal_expectations" auto_type="free" gender="female">Beauty rose at four
                  in the morning, and made haste to have the house clean, and breakfast ready for the
                  family. In
                  the beginning she found it very difficult, for she had not been used to work as a
                  servant; but
                  in less than two months she grew stronger and healthier than ever. After she had done
                  her
                  work, she read, played on the harpsichord, or else sung whilst she spun.</span> On the
               contrary, her two sisters did not know how to spend their time; <span class="auto" level="evil" auto_type="free" gender="female">they got up at ten, and did nothing but saunter about the whole
                  day, lamenting the loss of their fine clothes and acquaintance.</span>
               <span class="quote"><q>Do but see our youngest sister, (said they one to the other,) what a poor, stupid mean-spirited creature she is, to be
                     contented with such an unhappy situation.</q></span> The good merchant was of
               a quite different opinion; he knew very well that Beauty out-shone her sisters, in
               her person as
               well as her mind, and admired her <span class="adj">humility, industry, and patience;</span> for
               her sisters not only left her all the work of
               the house to do, but insulted her every moment.</p>
            <p>The family had lived about a year in this retirement, when the merchant received a
               letter, with
               an account that a vessel, on board of which he had effects, was safely arrived. This
               news had
               liked to have turned the heads of the two eldest daughters, who immediately flattered
               themselves
               with the hopes of returning to town; for they were quite weary of a country life;
               and when they
               saw their father ready to set out, <span class="auto" level="evil" auto_type="free" gender="female">they
                  begged of him to buy them new gowns, caps, rings, and all manner of trifles;</span> but
               Beauty asked for nothing, for she thought to herself, that all the money her father
               was going to
               receive would scarce be sufficient to purchase every thing her sisters wanted. <span class="quote"><q>What will
                     you have, Beauty?</q></span> said her father. <span class="auto" auto_type="controlled" gender="female">
                  <span class="quote"><q>Since you are so kind as to think of me, (answered she,) be so kind as to bring me
                        a
                        rose, for as none grow hereabouts, they are a kind of rarity.</q></span> Not that Beauty cared
                  for a rose, but she asked for something, lest she should seem by her example to condemn
                  her
                  sisters' conduct, who would have said she did it only to look particular.</span> The good
               man went on his journey; but when he came there, they went to law with him about the
               merchandize, and after a great deal of trouble and pains to no purpose, he came back
               as poor as
               before.</p>
            <p>He was within thirty miles of his own house, thinking on the pleasure he should have
               in seeing
               his children again, when going through a large forest he lost himself. It rained and
               snowed
               terribly, besides, the wind was so high, that it threw him twice off his horse; and
               night coming
               on, he began to apprehend being either starved to death with cold and hunger, or else
               devoured
               by the wolves, whom he heard howling all around him, when, on a sudden, looking through
               a long
               walk of trees, he saw a light at some distance, and going on a little farther, perceived
               it came
               from a palace illuminated from top to bottom. The merchant <span class="auto" level="religious" auto_type="controlled" gender="male">returned God thanks for this happy discovery, and
                  hasted to the palace;</span> but was greatly surprised at not meeting with anyone in the
               out-courts. His horse followed him, and seeing a large stable open, went in, and finding
               both
               hay and oats, the poor beast, who was almost famished, fell to eating very heartily.
               The
               merchant tied him up to the manger, and walked towards the house, where he saw no
               one, but
               entering into a large hall, he found a good fire, and a table plentifully set out,
               with but one
               cover laid. As he was wet quite through with the rain and snow, he drew near the fire
               to dry
               himself. <span class="quote"><q>I hope, (said he,) the master of the house, or his servants, will excuse the
                     liberty I take; I suppose it will not be long before some of them appear.</q></span></p>
            <p>He waited a considerable time, till it struck eleven, and still nobody came: at last
               he was so
               hungry that he could stay no longer, but took a chicken and ate it in two mouthfuls,
               trembling
               all the while. After this, he drank a few glasses of wine, and growing more courageous,
               he went
               out of the hall, and crossed through several grand apartments with magnificent furniture,
               till
               he came into a chamber, which had an exceeding good bed in it, and as he was very
               much fatigued,
               and it was past midnight, he concluded it was best to shut the door, and go to bed.</p>
            <p>It was ten the next morning before the merchant waked, and as he was going to rise,
               he was
               astonished to see a good suit of clothes in the room of his own, which were quite
               spoiled.
               <span class="quote"><q>Certainly, (said he,) this palace belongs to some kind fairy, who has seen and pitied
                     my distress.</q></span> He looked through a window, but instead of snow saw the most delightful
               arbours, interwoven with the most beautiful flowers that ever were beheld. He then
               returned to
               the great hall, where he had supped the night before, and found some chocolate ready
               made on a
               little table. <span class="quote"><q>Thank you, good Madam Fairy, (said he aloud,) for being so careful as to
                     provide me a breakfast; I am extremely obliged to you for all your favours.</q></span></p>
            <p>The good man drank his chocolate, and then went to look for his horse; but passing
               through an
               arbour of roses, he remembered Beauty's request to him, and gathered a branch on which
               were
               several; immediately he heard a great noise, and saw such a frightful beast coming
               towards him,
               that he was ready to faint away. <span class="quote"><q>You are very ungrateful, (said the beast to him, in a
                     terrible voice) I have saved your life by receiving you into my castle, and, in return,
                     you
                     steal my roses, which I value beyond any thing in the universe; but you shall die for it; I give you but a quarter of an hour to prepare
                     yourself, to say your prayers.</q></span> The merchant fell on his knees, and
               lifted up both his hands: <span class="quote"><q>My Lord (said he,) I beseech you to forgive me, indeed I had no
                     intention to offend in gathering a rose for one of my daughters, who desired me to
                     bring her
                     one.</q></span>
               <span class="quote"><q>My name is not My Lord, (replied the monster,) but Beast; I don't love compliments,
                     not
                     I; I like people should speak as they think; and so do not imagine I am to be moved
                     by any of
                     your flattering speeches; but you say you have got daughters; I will forgive you,
                     on condition
                     that one of them come willingly, and suffer for you. Let me have no words, but go
                     about your
                     business, and swear that if your daughter refuse to die in your stead, you will return
                     within
                     three months.</q></span> The merchant had no mind to sacrifice his daughters to the ugly monster,
               but he thought, in obtaining this respite, he should have the satisfaction of seeing
               them once
               more; so he promised upon oath, he would return, and the Beast told him he might set
               out when he
               pleased; <span class="quote"><q>but, (added he,) you shall not depart empty handed; go back to the room where
                     you lay, and you will see a great empty chest; fill it with whatever you like best,
                     and I will
                     send it to your home,</q></span> and at the same time Beast withdrew. <span class="quote"><q>Well (said the good
                     man to himself) if I must die, I shall have the comfort, at least, of leaving something
                     to my
                     poor children.</q></span></p>
            <p>He returned to the bed-chamber, and finding a great quantity of broad pieces of gold,
               he filled
               the great chest the Beast had mentioned, locked it, and afterwards took his horse
               out of the
               stable, leaving the palace with as much grief as he had entered it with joy. The horse,
               of his
               own accord, took one of the roads of the forest; and in a few hours the good man was
               at home.
               His children came around him, but, instead of receiving their embraces with pleasure,
               he looked
               on them, and, holding up the branch he had in his hands, he burst into tears. <span class="quote"><q>Here,
                     Beauty, (said he,) take these roses; but little do you think how dear they are like
                     to cost
                     your unhappy father;</q></span> and then related his fatal adventure: immediately the two eldest set up lamentable outcries, and
               said all manner of ill-natured things to Beauty, who did not cry at all. <span class="quote"><q>Do but see the
                     pride of that little wretch, (said they); she would not ask for fine clothes, as we
                     did; but
                     no, truly, Miss wanted to distinguish herself; so now she will be the death of our
                     poor
                     father, and yet she does not so much as shed a tear.</q></span>
               <span class="quote"><q>Why should I, (answered Beauty,) it would be very needless, for my father shall not
                     suffer upon my account, since the monster will accept of one of his daughters, <span class="auto" level="heroine" auto_type="free" gender="female"> I will deliver myself up to all his fury,
                        and I am very happy in thinking that my death will save my father's life, and be a
                        proof of
                        my tender love for him.</span></q></span>
               <span class="quote"><q><span class="auto" level="male_savior" gender="male">No, sister, (said her three brothers,) that
                        shall not be, we will go find the monster, and either kill him, or perish in the
                        attempt.</span></q></span>
               <span class="quote"><q>Do not imagine any such thing, my sons, (said the merchant,) Beast's power is so great,
                     that I have no hopes of your overcoming him; I am charmed with Beauty's kind and generous
                     offer, but I cannot yield to it; I am old, and have not long to live, so can only
                     lose a few
                     years, which I regret for your sakes alone, my dear children.</q></span>
               <span class="quote"><q>Indeed, father (said Beauty), you shall not go to the palace without me, you cannot
                     hinder me from following you.</q></span> It was to no purpose all they could say, <span class="auto" level="heroine" auto_type="free" gender="female"> Beauty still insisted on setting out for the
                  fine palace;</span>
                and her sisters were delighted at it, for her
               virtue and amiable qualities made them envious and jealous.</p>
            <p>The merchant was so afflicted at the thoughts of losing his daughter, that he had
               quite forgot
               the chest full of gold; but at night, when he retired to rest, no sooner had he shut
               his
               chamber-door, than, to his great astonishment, he found it by his bedside; he was
               determined,
               however, not to tell his children that he was grown rich, because they would have
               wanted to
               return to town, and he was resolved not to leave the country; but he trusted Beauty
               with the
               secret: who informed him, that two gentlemen came in his absence, and courted her
               sisters; she
               begged her father to consent to their marriage, and give them fortunes; for she was
               so
               <span class="adj">good,</span> that she loved them, and forgave them heartily all their
               ill-usage. <span class="auto" level="evil" auto_type="free" gender="female">These wicked creatures rubbed
                  their eyes with an onion, to force some tears when they parted with their sister;</span>
               but her brothers were really concerned. Beauty was the only one who did not shed tears
               at
               parting, because she would not increase their uneasiness.</p>
            <p>The horse took the direct road to the palace; and towards evening they perceived it
               illuminated
               as at first: the horse went of himself into the stable, and the good man and his daughter
               came
               into the great hall, where they found a table splendidly served up, and two covers.
               The merchant
               had no heart to eat; but Beauty endeavoured to appear cheerful, sat down to table,
               and helped
               him. Afterwards, thought she to herself, <span class="quote"><q>Beast surely has a mind to fatten me before he
                     eats me, since he provides such a plentiful entertainment.</q></span> When they had supped, they
               heard a great noise, and the merchant, all in tears, bid his poor child farewell,
               for he thought
               Beast was coming. Beauty was sadly terrified at his horrid form, but she took courage
               as well as
               she could, and the monster having asked her if she came willingly; <span class="quote"><q>y--e--s,</q></span> said
               she, trembling. <span class="quote"><q>You are very good, and I am greatly obliged to you; honest man, go your
                     ways tomorrow morning, but never think of returning here again. Farewell, Beauty.</q></span>
               <span class="quote"><q>Farewell, Beast,</q></span> answered she; and immediately the monster withdrew. <span class="quote"><q>Oh,
                     daughter, (said the merchant, embracing Beauty,) I am almost frightened to death;
                     believe me,
                     you had better go back, and let me stay here.</q></span>
               <span class="auto" level="heroine" auto_type="free" gender="female"><span class="quote"><q>No, father, (said Beauty, in a
                        resolute tone,) you shall set out tomorrow morning, and leave me to the care and protection
                        of Providence.</q></span></span> They went to bed, and thought they should not close their
               eyes all night; but scarce were they laid down, than they fell fast asleep; and Beauty
               dreamed,
               a fine lady came, and said to her, <span class="quote"><q>I am content, Beauty, with your good will; this good
                     action of yours, in giving up your own life to save your father's, shall not go
                     unrewarded.</q></span> Beauty waked, and told her father her dream, and though it helped to
               comfort him a little, yet he could not help crying bitterly, when he took leave of
               his dear
               child.</p>
            <p>As soon as he was gone, <span class="auto" level="damsel" auto_type="controlled" gender="female"> Beauty
                  sat down in the great hall, and fell a crying likewise;</span> but as she was mistress of
               a great deal of resolution, <span class="auto" level="religious" auto_type="controlled" gender="female">she recommended herself to God, and resolved not to be uneasy the little time she
                  had to
                  live; for she firmly believed Beast would eat her up that night.</span></p>
            <p>
               <span class="auto" auto_type="controlled" gender="female"> However, she thought she might as well walk
                  about till then, and view this fine castle,</span> which she could not help admiring; it
               was a delightful pleasant place, and she was extremely surprised at seeing a door,
               over which
               was wrote, <span class="quote"><q>BEAUTY'S APARTMENT.</q></span> She opened it hastily, and was quite dazzled with
               the magnificence that reigned throughout; but what chiefly took up her attention,
               was a large
               library, a harpsichord, and several music books. <span class="quote"><q>Well, (said she to herself,) I see they
                     will not let my time hang heavy on my hands for want of amusement.</q></span> Then she reflected,
               <span class="quote"><q>Were I but to stay here a day, there would not have been all these
                     preparations.</q></span> This consideration inspired her with fresh courage; and opening the
               library, she took a book, and read these words in letters of gold:--</p>
            <p><span class="quote"><q>Welcome, Beauty, banish fear, You are queen and mistress here; Speak your wishes,
                     speak
                     your will, Swift obedience meets them still.</q></span></p>
            <p>
               <span class="quote"><q>Alas, (said she, with a sigh,) there is nothing I desire so much as to see my poor
                     father, and to know what he is doing.</q></span> She had no sooner said this,<span class="auto" auto_type="controlled" gender="female">when casting her eyes on a great looking-glass, to her
                  great amazement she saw her own home,</span> where her father arrived with a very dejected
               countenance; her sisters went to meet him, and,
               notwithstanding their endeavours to appear sorrowful, their joy, felt for having got
               rid of
               their sister, was visible in every feature: a moment after, every thing disappeared,
               and
               Beauty's apprehensions at this proof of Beast's complaisance.</p>
            <p>
               <span class="auto" level="damsel" auto_type="controlled" gender="female"> At noon she found dinner ready,
                  and while at table, was entertained with an excellent concert of music, though without
                  seeing
                  any body: but at night, as she was going to sit down to supper, she heard the noise
                  Beast
                  made; and could not help being sadly terrified.</span>
               <span class="quote"><q>Beauty, (said the monster,) will you give me leave to see you sup?</q></span>
               <span class="quote"><q>That is as you please,</q></span> answered Beauty, trembling. <span class="quote"><q>No, (replied the
                     Beast,) you alone are mistress here; you need only bid me be gone, if my presence
                     is
                     troublesome, and I will immediately withdraw: but tell me, do not you think me very
                     ugly?</q></span>
               <span class="quote"><q>That is true, (said Beauty,) for I cannot tell a lie; but I believe you are very
                     good-natured.</q></span>
               <span class="quote"><q>So I am, (said the monster,) but then, besides my ugliness, I have no sense; I know
                     very
                     well that I am a poor, silly, stupid creature.</q></span>
               <span class="quote"><q>'Tis no sign of folly to think so, (replied Beauty,) for never did fool know this,
                     or had
                     so humble a conceit of his own understanding.</q></span>
               <span class="quote"><q>Eat then, Beauty, (said the monster,) and endeavour to amuse yourself in your palace;
                     for
                     every thing here is yours, and I should be very uneasy if you were not happy.</q></span>
               <span class="quote"><q>You are very obliging, (answered Beauty;) I own I am pleased with your kindness, and
                     when
                     I consider that, your deformity scarce appears.</q></span>
               <span class="quote"><q>Yes, yes, (said the Beast,) my heart is good, but still I am a monster.</q></span>
               <span class="quote"><q>Among mankind, (says Beauty,) there are many that deserve that name more than you,
                     and I
                     prefer you, just as your are, to those, who, under a human form, hide a treacherous,
                     corrupt,
                     and ungrateful heart.</q></span>
               <span class="quote"><q>If I had sense enough, (replied the Beast,) I would make a fine compliment to thank
                     you,
                     but I am so dull, that I can only say, I am greatly obliged to you.</q></span> Beauty ate a
               hearty supper, and had almost conquered her dread of the monster; but she had liked
               to have
               fainted away, when he said to her, <span class="quote"><q>Beauty, will you be my wife?</q></span> She was some time
               before she durst answer; for she was afraid of making him angry, if she refused. <span class="auto" auto_type="free" gender="female">At last, however, she said, trembling, <span class="quote"><q>No,
                        Beast.</q></span></span> Immediately the poor monster began to sigh, and hissed so
               frightfully, that the whole palace echoed. But Beauty soon recovered her fright, for
               Beast
               having said, in a mournful voice, <span class="quote"><q>then farewell, Beauty,</q></span> left the room; and only
               turned back, now and then, to look at her as he went out.</p>
            <p>When Beauty was alone, she felt a great deal of compassion for poor Beast. <span class="quote"><q>Alas, (said
                     she,) 'tis a thousand pities any thing so good-natured should be so ugly.</q></span></p>
            <p><span class="auto" auto_type="controlled">Beauty spent three months very contentedly in the palace:
                  every evening Beast paid her a visit, and talked to her during supper,</span> very
               rationally, with plain good common sense, but never with what the world calls wit;
               and Beauty
               daily discovered some valuable qualifications in the monster; and seeing him often,
               had so
               accustomed her to his deformity, that, far from dreading the time of his visit, she
               would often
               look on her watch to see when it would be nine; for the Beast never missed coming
               at that hour.
               There was but one thing that gave Beauty any concern, which was, that every night,
               before she
               went to bed, the monster always asked her, if she would be his wife. <span class="auto" auto_type="free" gender="female">One day she said to him, <span class="quote"><q>Beast, you make me very uneasy, I wish I
                        could consent to marry you, but I am too sincere to make you believe that will ever
                        happen:
                        I shall always esteem you as a friend; endeavour to be satisfied with
                        this.</q></span></span>
               <span class="quote"><q>I must, said the Beast, for, alas! I know too well my own misfortune; but then I love
                     you
                     with the tenderest affection: however, I ought to think myself happy that you will
                     stay here;
                     promise me never to leave me.</q></span> Beauty blushed at these words; she had seen in her
               glass, that her father had pined himself sick for the loss of her, and she longed
               to see him
               again. <span class="quote"><q>I could, (answered she), indeed promise never to leave you entirely, but I have so
                     great a desire to see my father, that I shall fret to death, if you refuse me that
                     satisfaction.</q></span>
               <span class="quote"><q>I had rather die myself, (said the monster,) than give you the least uneasiness: I
                     will
                     send you to your father, you shall remain with him, and poor Beast will die with
                     grief.</q></span>
               <span class="auto" auto_type="free"><span class="quote"><q><span class="female">No, (said Beauty, weeping,) I love you too well to be the cause of
                           your death: I give you my promise to return in a week:</span> you have shewn me
                        that my sisters are married, and my brothers gone to the army; only let me stay a
                        week with
                        my father, as he is alone.</q></span></span>
               <span class="quote"><q>You shall be there tomorrow morning, (said the Beast,) but remember your promise:
                     you
                     need only lay your ring on the table before you go to bed, when you have a mind to
                     come back:
                     farewell, Beauty.</q></span> Beast sighed as usual, bidding her good night; and Beauty went to
               bed very sad at seeing him so afflicted. When she waked the next morning, she found
               herself at
               her father's, and having rang a little bell, that was by her bed-side, she saw the
               maid come;
               who, the moment she saw her, gave a loud shriek; at which the good man ran up stairs,
               and
               thought he should have died with joy to see his dear daughter again. He held her fast
               locked in
               his arms above a quarter of an hour. As soon as the first transports were over, Beauty
               began to
               think of rising, and was afraid she had no clothes to put on; but the maid told her,
               that she
               had just found, in the next room, a large trunk full of gowns, covered with gold and
               diamonds.
               Beauty thanked good Beast for his kind care, and taking one of the plainest of them,
               she
               intended to make a present of the others to her sisters. <span class="auto" auto_type="controlled" gender="female">She scarce had said so, when the trunk disappeared. Her father told
                  her, that Beast insisted on her keeping them herself; and immediately both gowns and
                  trunk
                  came back again.</span></p>
            <p>Beauty dressed herself; and in the mean time they sent to her sisters, who hasted
               thither with
               their husbands. They were both of them very unhappy. The eldest had married a gentleman,
               extremely handsome indeed, but so fond of his own person, that he was full of nothing
               but his
               own dear self, and neglected his wife. The second had married a man of wit, but he
               only made use
               of it to plague and torment every body, and his wife most of all. Beauty's sisters
               sickened with
               envy, when they saw her dressed like a Princess, and more beautiful than ever; nor
               could all her
               obliging affectionate behaviour stifle their jealousy, which was ready to burst when
               she told
               them how happy she was. They went down into the garden to vent it in tears; and said
               one to the
               other, <span class="quote"><q>In what is this little creature better than us, that she should be so much
                     happier?</q></span>
               <span class="quote"><q>Sister, said the eldest, a thought just
                     strikes my mind; let us endeavour to detain her above a week, and perhaps the silly
                     monster
                     will be so enraged at her for breaking her word, that he will devour her.</q></span>
               <span class="quote"><q>Right, sister, answered the other, therefore we must shew her as much kindness as
                     possible.</q></span> After they had taken this resolution, they went up, and behaved so
               affectionately to their sister, that <span class="female">poor Beauty wept for joy.</span> When the week was expired,
               they cried and tore their hair, and seemed so sorry to part with her, that she promised
               to
               stay a week longer.</p>
            <p>In the mean time, Beauty could not help reflecting on herself for the uneasiness she
               was likely
               to cause poor Beast, whom she sincerely loved, and really longed to see again. The
               tenth night
               she spent at her father's, she dreamed she was in the palace garden, and that she
               saw Beast
               extended on the grass-plot, who seemed just expiring, and, in a dying voice, reproached
               her with
               her ingratitude. <span class="female">Beauty started out of her sleep and bursting into tears,</span>
               <span class="quote"><q>Am not I very wicked, (said she) to act so unkindly to Beast, that has studied so
                     much to
                     please me in every thing? Is it his fault that he is so ugly, and has so little sense?
                     He is
                     kind and good, and that is sufficient. Why did I refuse to marry him? I should be
                     happier with
                     the monster than my sisters are with their husbands; it is neither wit nor a fine
                     person in a
                     husband, that makes a woman happy; but virtue, sweetness of temper, and complaisance:
                     and
                     Beast has all these valuable qualifications. It is true, I do not feel the tenderness
                     of
                     affection for him, but I find I have the highest gratitude, esteem, and friendship;
                     and I will
                     not make him miserable; were I to be so ungrateful, I should never forgive myself.</q></span>
               <span class="auto" auto_type="free">Beauty having said this, rose, put her ring on the table, and then
                  laid down again;</span> scarce was she in bed before she fell asleep; and when she waked
               the next morning, she was overjoyed to find herself in the Beast's palace. She put
               on one of her
               richest suits to please him, and waited for evening with the utmost impatience; at
               last the
               wished-for hour came, the clock struck nine, yet no Beast appeared. <span class="auto" level="damsel" auto_type="free" gender="female">Beauty then feared she had been the cause of his death; she
                  ran crying and wringing her hands all about the palace, like one in despair; after
                  having
                  sought for him every where, she recollected her dream, and flew to the canal in the
                  garden,
                  where she dreamed she saw him.</span> There she found poor Beast stretched out, quite
               senseless, and, as she imagined, dead. <span class="auto" level="heroine" auto_type="free" gender="female">She threw herself upon him without any dread, and finding his heart beat
                  still, she fetched some water from the canal, and poured it on his head.</span> Beast
               opened his eyes, and said to Beauty, <span class="quote"><q>You forgot your promise, and I was so afflicted for
                     having lost you, that I resolved to starve myself; but since I have the happiness
                     of seeing
                     you once more, I die satisfied.</q></span>
               <span class="quote"><q>No, dear Beast, (said Beauty,) you must not die; live to be my husband; from this
                     moment
                     I give you my hand, and swear to be none but yours. Alas! I thought I had only a friendship
                     for you, but, the grief I now feel convinces me, that I cannot live without you.</q></span>
               Beauty scarcely had pronounced these words, when she saw the palace sparkle with light;
               and
               fireworks, instruments of music, every thing, seemed to give notice of some great
               event: but
               nothing could fix her attention; she turned to her dear Beast, for whom she trembled
               with fear;
               but how great was her surprise! Beast had disappeared, and she saw, at her feet, <span class="male">one of the loveliest Princes that eye
                  ever beheld,</span> who returned her thanks for having put an end to the charm,
               under which he had so long resembled a Beast. Though this Prince was worthy of all
               her
               attention, she could not forbear asking where Beast was. <span class="quote"><q>You see him at your feet, (said
                     the Prince): a wicked fairy had condemned me to remain under that shape till <span class="female">a beautiful virgin should consent
                        to marry me:</span> the fairy likewise enjoined me to conceal my understanding;
                     there was only you in the world generous enough to be won by the goodness of my temper;
                     and in
                     offering you my crown, I can't discharge the obligations I have to you.</q></span> Beauty,
               agreeably surprised, gave the <span class="adj">charming</span> Prince her hand to rise; they went
               together into the castle, and Beauty was overjoyed to find, in the great hall, her
               father and
               his whole family, whom the <span class="adj">beautiful</span> lady, that appeared to her in her
               dream, had conveyed thither.</p>
            <p><span class="quote"><q>Beauty, (said this lady,) come and receive the reward of your judicious choice; you
                     have
                     preferred virtue before either wit or beauty, and deserve to find a person in whom
                     all these
                     qualifications are united: <span class="auto" level="societal_expectations" auto_type="controlled" gender="female">you are going to be a great Queen; I hope the throne will not
                        lessen your virtue, or make you forget yourself.</span> As to you, ladies, (said the
                     Fairy to Beauty's two sisters,) I know your hearts, and all the malice they contain:
                     become
                     two statues; but, under this transformation, still retain your reason. You shall stand
                     before
                     your sister's palace gate, and be it your punishment to behold her happiness; and
                     it will not
                     be in your power to return to your former state till you own your faults; but I am
                     very much
                     afraid that you will always remain statues. <span class="adj">Pride, anger, gluttony, and
                        idleness,</span> are sometimes conquered, but the conversion of a malicious and envious
                     mind is a kind of miracle.</q></span> Immediately the fairy gave a stroke with her wand, and in a
               moment all that were in the hall were transported into the Prince's palace. His subjects
               received him with joy; he married Beauty, and lived with her many years; and their
               happiness, as
               it was founded on virtue, was complete.</p>
         </div>
      </main>
   </body>
</html>