<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <title>The Sleeping Beauty in the Wood<link href="xsltstyle.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/></title>
   </head>
   <body>
      <h1>The Sleeping Beauty in the Wood</h1>
      <section>
         <p>Once upon a time there <span class="female">lived a king and queen who were grieved, more grieved than words can
               tell, because they had no children</span>. They tried the waters of every country, made vows and
            pilgrimages, and did everything that could be done, but without result. At last, however,
            <span class="female">the queen found that her wishes were fulfilled, and in due course she gave birth to
               a
               daughter.</span></p>
         <p>A grand christening was held, and all the fairies that could be found in the realm
            (they
            numbered seven in all) were <span class="female">invited to be godmothers to the little princess</span>. This was done
            so that by means of the gifts which each in turn would bestow upon her (in accordance
            with
            the fairy custom of those days) <span class="female">the princess might be endowed with every imaginable
               perfection</span>.</p>
         <p>When the christening ceremony was over, all the company returned to the <span class="adj">king's palace</span>, where
            a great banquet was held in honor of the fairies. Places were laid for them in magnificent
            style, and before each was placed a solid gold casket containing a spoon, fork, and
            knife of
            fine gold, set with diamonds and rubies. But just as all were sitting down to table an aged
            fairy was seen to enter, whom no one had thought to invite -- the reason being that for more
            than fifty years she had never quitted the tower in which she lived, and people had supposed
            her to be dead or bewitched.</p>
         <p>By the king's orders a place was laid for her, but it was impossible to give her a
            golden
            casket like the others, for only seven had been made for the seven fairies. The <span class="adj">old creature</span>
            believed that she was intentionally slighted, and muttered threats between her teeth.</p>
         <p>She was overheard by one of the <span class="adj">young fairies</span>, who was seated nearby. The latter, guessing
            that some mischievous gift might be bestowed upon the little princess, hid behind
            the
            tapestry as soon as the company left the table. Her intention was to be the last to speak,
            and so to have the power of counteracting, as far as possible, any evil which the
            <span class="adj">old</span> fairy
            might do.</p>
         <p> Presently the fairies began to bestow their gifts upon the princess. The <span class="adj">youngest ordained </span>
            that she should be the <span class="female">most <span class="adj">beautiful</span> person in the world</span>; the next, that she should have
            <span class="female"> the temper of an angel</span>; the third, that she should <span class="female">do everything with wonderful grace</span>; the
            fourth, that <span class="physical">she should dance to perfection</span>; the fifth, <span class="female">that she should sing like a
               nightingale</span>; and the sixth, that she should play every kind of music with the utmost skill.</p>
         <p><span class="female">It was now the turn of the <span class="adj">aged</span> fairy. Shaking her head, in token of spite rather than of
               infirmity, she declared that the princess should <span class="menstruation">prick her hand with a spindle</span>, and die of
               it. A shudder ran through the company at this <span class="adj">terrible</span> gift. All eyes were filled with
               tears.</span></p>
         <p>But at this moment the young fairy stepped forth from behind the tapestry.</p>
         <p><span class="quote"><q>Take comfort, your Majesties,</q></span> she cried in a loud voice. <span class="quote"><q>Your
                  daughter shall not die. My power, it is true, is not enough to undo all that my aged
                  kinswoman has decreed. The princess will indeed <span class="menstruation">prick her hand with a spindle</span>. But
                  instead of dying she shall merely fall into a profound slumber that will last a hundred
                  years. <span class="female">At the end of that time a king's son shall come to awaken her.</span></q></span></p>
         <p>The king, in an attempt to <span class="male">avert</span> the unhappy doom pronounced by the old fairy, at once
            published an edict forbidding all persons, under pain of death, to use a spinning
            wheel or
            keep a spindle in the house.</p>
         <p><span class="female">At the end of fifteen or sixteen years the king and queen happened one day to be away,
               on
               pleasure bent. The princess was running about the castle, and going upstairs from
               room to
               room she came at length to a garret at the top of a tower, where an old serving woman
               sat
               alone with her distaff, spinning. This good woman had never heard speak of the king's
               proclamation forbidding the use of spinning wheels</span>.</p>
         <p><span class="quote"><q>What are you doing, my good woman?</q></span> asked the princess. </p>
         <p><span class="quote"><q>I am spinning, my <span class="adj">pretty</span> child,</q></span> replied the dame, <span class="female">not knowing who she
               was.</span></p>
         <p><span class="quote"><q><span class="female">"Oh, what fun!"</span></q></span> rejoined the princess. <span class="quote"><q>How do you do it? Let me try
                  and see if I can do it equally well.</q></span></p>
         <p> <span class="female">Partly because she was too <span class="adj">hasty</span>, partly because she was a little <span class="adj">heedless</span>, but also because
               the fairy decree had ordained it, no sooner had she seized the spindle than she <span class="menstruation">pricked her
                  hand and fell down in a swoon.</span></span></p>
         <p> In great alarm the <span class="adj">good</span> dame cried out for help. People
            came running from every quarter to the princess. They threw water on her face, chafed
            her with
            their hands, and rubbed her temples with the royal essence of Hungary. But nothing
            would restore
            her.</p>
         <p> <span class="male">Then the king, who had been brought upstairs by the commotion, remembered the fairy
               prophecy.</span> Feeling certain that what had happened was inevitable, since the fairies had
            decreed it, he gave orders that the princess should be placed in the finest apartment
            in the
            palace, <span class="female">upon a bed embroidered in gold and silver.</span></p>
         <p><span class="female">You would have thought her an <span class="adj">angel</span>, so fair was she to behold. The trance had not taken away
               the <span class="adj">lovely color</span> of her complexion. Her cheeks were <span class="adj">delicately</span> flushed, her lips like coral.</span>
            Her eyes, indeed, were closed, but her <span class="adj">gentle</span> breathing could be heard, and it was therefore
            plain that she was not dead. <span class="male">The king commanded</span> that she should be left to sleep in peace
            <span class="female">until the hour of her awakening should come.</span></p>
         <p> When the accident happened to the princess, the <span class="adj">good</span> fairy who had saved her life by
            condemning her to sleep a hundred years was in the kingdom of Mataquin, twelve thousand
            leagues away. She was instantly warned of it, however, by a little dwarf who had a
            pair of
            seven-league boots, which are boots that enable one to cover seven leagues at a single
            step.
            The fairy set off at once, and within an hour her chariot of fire, drawn by dragons,
            was
            seen approaching. </p>
         <p>The king handed her down from her chariot, and she approved of all that he had done.
            But
            being gifted with great powers of foresight, she bethought herself that when the princess
            came to be awakened, <span class="female"><span class="female">she would be much distressed to find herself all alone in the old
                  castle.</span></span> And this is what she did.</p>
         <p><span class="female">She touched with her wand everybody</span> (except the king and queen) who was in the castle --
            governesses, maids of honor, ladies-in-waiting, gentlemen, officers, stewards, cooks,
            scullions, errand boys, guards, porters, pages, footmen. She touched likewise all
            the horses
            in the stables, with their grooms, the big mastiffs in the courtyard, and little Puff,
            the
            pet dog of the princess, who was lying on the bed beside his mistress. The moment
            she had
            touched them they all fell asleep, to awaken only at the same moment as their mistress.
            <span class="female">Thus
               they would always be ready with their service whenever she should require it.</span> The very spits
            before the fire, loaded with partridges and pheasants, subsided into slumber, and
            the fire
            as well. All was done in a moment, for the fairies do not take long over their work.</p>
         <p>Then the king and queen kissed their <span class="adj">dear</span> child, without waking her, and left the castle.
            Proclamations were issued, forbidding any approach to it, but these warnings were
            not
            needed, for within a quarter of an hour there grew up all round the park so vast a
            quantity
            of trees big and small,<span class="female"> with interlacing brambles and thorns, that neither man nor beast
               could penetrate them.</span> The tops alone of the castle towers could be seen, and these only from
            a distance. Thus did the fairy's magic contrive that the princess, during all the
            time of
            her slumber, should have naught whatever to fear from prying eyes.</p>
         <p>At the end of a hundred years the throne had passed to another family from that of
            the
            sleeping princess. One day the king's son chanced to go a-hunting that way, and seeing
            in
            the distance some towers in the midst of a large and dense forest, he asked what they
            were.
            His attendants told him in reply the various stories which they had heard. Some said
            there
            was an old castle haunted by ghosts, others that all the witches of the neighborhood
            held
            their revels there. The favorite tale was that in the castle lived an ogre, who carried
            thither all the children whom he could catch. There he devoured them at his leisure,
            and
            since he was the only person who could force a passage through the wood nobody had
            been able
            to pursue him.</p>
         <p> While the prince was wondering what to believe, an old peasant took up the tale.
            </p>
         <p><span class="quote"><q>Your Highness,</q></span> said he, <span class="quote"><q>more than fifty years ago I heard my father
                  say that in this castle lies a princess, <span class="female">the <span class="adj">most beautiful</span> that has ever been seen.</span> It
                  is her doom to sleep there for a hundred years, and <span class="male">then to be awakened by a king's son,
                     for whose coming she waits.</span></q></span></p>
         <p> <span class="male">This story <span class="adj">fired</span> the young prince. He jumped immediately to the conclusion that it was for
               him to see so gay an adventure through, and <span class="adj">impelled</span> alike by the wish for love and glory,
               he <span class="adj">resolved</span> to set about it on the spot. </span></p>
         <p> Hardly had he taken a step towards the wood when the tall trees, <span class="male">the brambles and the
               thorns, separated of themselves and made a path for him</span>. He turned in the direction of the
            castle, and espied it at the end of a long avenue. This avenue he entered, and was
            surprised
            to notice that the trees closed up again as soon as he had passed, so that none of
            his
            retinue were able to follow him. <span class="male">A young and <span class="adj">gallant</span> prince is always <span class="adj">brave</span>,</span> however; so he
            continued on his way, and presently reached a large forecourt.</p>
         <p>The sight that now met his gaze was enough to fill him with an icy fear. The silence
            of the
            place was dreadful, and death seemed all about him. The recumbent figures of men and
            animals
            had all the appearance of being lifeless, until he perceived by the pimply noses and
            ruddy
            faces of the porters, that they merely slept. It was plain, too, from their glasses,
            in
            which were still some dregs of wine, that they had fallen asleep while drinking.</p>
         <p>The prince made his way into a great courtyard, paved with marble, and mounting the
            staircase
            entered the guardroom. Here the guards were lined up on either side in two ranks,
            their
            muskets on their shoulders, snoring their hardest. Through several apartments crowded
            with
            ladies and gentlemen in waiting, some seated, some standing, but all asleep, he pushed
            on,
            and so came at last to a chamber which was decked all over with gold. <span class="female">There he encountered
               the most beautiful sight he had ever seen.</span> Reclining upon a bed, the curtains of which on
            every side were drawn back, was <span class="female">a princess of seemingly some fifteen or sixteen summers,
               whose <span class="adj">radiant beauty</span> had an almost <span class="adj">unearthly</span> luster.</span></p>
         <p><span class="female">Trembling in his admiration he drew near and went on his knees beside her.</span> At the same
            moment, <span class="female">the hour of disenchantment having come, the princess awoke, and bestowed upon him
               a
               look more <span class="adj">tender</span> than a first glance might seem to warrant.</span></p>
         <p><span class="quote"><q>Is it you, dear prince?</q></span> she said. <span class="quote"><q><span class="female">You have been long in
                     coming!</span></q></span></p>
         <p><span class="female">Charmed by these words, and especially by the manner in which they were said, the
               prince
               scarcely knew how to express his delight and gratification.</span> <span class="male">He declared that he loved her
               better than he loved himself.</span> His words were faltering, but they pleased the more for that.
            The less there is of eloquence, the more there is of love.</p>
         <p>Her embarrassment was less than his, and that is not to be wondered at, since she
            had had
            time to think of what she would say to him. It seems (although the story says nothing
            about
            it) <span class="female">that the good fairy had beguiled her long slumber with <span class="adj">pleasant</span> dreams.</span> To be brief,
            <span class="female">after four hours of talking they had not succeeded in uttering one half of the things
               they
               had to say to each other.</span></p>
         <p> Now the whole palace had awakened with the princess. Everyone went about his business,
            and
            since they were not all in love they presently began to feel mortally hungry. The
            lady-in-waiting, who was suffering like the rest, at length lost patience, and in
            a loud
            voice called out to the princess that supper was served. </p>
         <p>The princess was already fully dressed, <span class="female">and in most <span class="adj">magnificent</span> style</span>. <span class="female">As he helped her to
               rise,</span> the prince refrained from telling her that her clothes, with the straight collar
            which
            she wore, were like those to which his grandmother had been accustomed. <span class="female">And in truth, they
               in no way detracted from her beauty.</span></p>
         <p>They passed into an apartment hung with mirrors, and were there served with supper
            by the
            stewards of the household, while the fiddles and oboes played some old music and played
            it
            remarkably well, considering they had not played at all for just upon a hundred years.
            A
            little later, when supper was over, <span class="female">the chaplain married them in the castle chapel</span>, and in
            due course, attended by the courtiers in waiting, they retired to rest.</p>
         <p> They slept but little, however. The princess, indeed, had not much need of sleep,
            and as
            <span class="male">soon as morning came the prince took his leave of her.</span> He returned to the city, and told his
            father, who was awaiting him with some anxiety, that he had lost himself while hunting
            in
            the forest, but had obtained some black bread and cheese from a charcoal burner, in
            whose
            hovel he had passed the night.</p>
         <p> His royal father, being of an easygoing nature, believed the tale, <span class="female">but his mother was not so
               easily hoodwinked.</span> She noticed that he now went hunting every day, and that he always had an
            excuse handy when he had slept two or three nights from home. She felt certain, therefore,
            that he had some love affair.</p>
         <p><span class="female">Two whole years passed since the marriage of the prince and princess, and during that
               time
               they had two children.</span> The first, a daughter, was called Dawn, while the second, a boy,
            was named Day, <span class="male">because he seemed even more beautiful than his sister.</span></p>
         <p> Many a time the queen told her son that he ought to settle down in life. <span class="female">She tried in this
               way to make him confide in her</span>, but he did not dare to trust her with his secret. Despite
            the affection which he bore her, <span class="female">he was afraid of his mother, for she came of a <span class="adj">race of
                  ogres,</span></span> <span class="female">and the king had only married her for her wealth.</span></p>
         <p>It was whispered at the court that she had <span class="adj">ogreish instincts</span>, <span class="female">and that when little children
               were near her she had the greatest difficulty in the world to keep herself from <span class="adj">pouncing</span> on
               them.</span></p>
         <p> No wonder the prince was reluctant to say a word.</p>
         <p>But at the end of two years the king died, and the prince found himself on the throne.
            He
            then made public announcement of his marriage, and went in state to fetch his royal
            consort
            from her castle. With her two children beside her she made a <span class="adj">triumphal entry</span> into the
            capital of her husband's realm.</p>
         <p>Some time afterwards the king declared war on his neighbor, the Emperor Cantalabutte.
            He
            appointed the queen mother as regent in his absence, <span class="female">and entrusted his wife and children to
               her care.</span></p>
         <p>He expected to be away at the war for the whole of the summer, and as soon as he was
            gone the
            queen mother sent her daughter-in-law and the two children to a country mansion in
            the
            forest. This she did that she might be able the more easily to gratify her <span class="adj">horrible
               longings</span>. A few days later she went there and in the evening summoned the chief steward.</p>
         <p><span class="quote"><q>For my dinner tomorrow,</q></span> she told him, <span class="quote"><q><span class="female">I will eat little
                     Dawn.</span></q></span></p>
         <p><span class="quote"><q>Oh, Madam!</q></span> exclaimed the steward. </p>
         <p><span class="quote"><q>That is my will,</q></span> said the queen; and <span class="female">she spoke in the <span class="adj">tones of an ogre</span> who
               longs for raw meat.</span></p>
         <p><span class="quote"><q>You will serve her with piquant sauce,</q></span> she added.</p>
         <p>The <span class="adj">poor</span> man, seeing plainly that it was <span class="male">useless to trifle with an ogress</span>, took his big knife
            and went up to <span class="adj">little</span> Dawn's chamber. She was at that time four years old, and when she came
            running <span class="female">with a smile to greet him, flinging her arms round his neck and <span class="adj">coaxing</span> him to give
               her some sweets</span>, he burst into tears, and let the knife fall from his hand.</p>
         <p> Presently he went down to the yard behind the house, and slaughtered a young lamb.
            For this
            he made so delicious a sauce that his mistress declared she had never eaten anything
            so
            good.</p>
         <p>At the same time the steward carried <span class="adj">little</span> Dawn to his wife, and bade the latter
            hide her in the quarters which they had below the yard.</p>
         <p> Eight days later <span class="female">the <span class="adj">wicked</span> queen</span> summoned her steward again.</p>
         <p><span class="quote"><q>For my supper,</q></span> she announced, <span class="quote"><q><span class="female">I will eat <span class="adj">little</span> Day.</span></q></span></p>
         <p> The steward made no answer, being determined to trick her as he had done previously.
            He went in search of
            little Day, whom he found with a tiny foil in his hand, making <span class="adj">brave</span> passes -- though he was but
            three years old -- at a big monkey. <span class="female">He carried him off to his wife, who stowed him away in
               hiding with little Dawn.</span> To the ogress the steward served up, in place of Day, a young kid so
            tender that she found it surpassingly delicious.</p>
         <p>So far, so good. But there came an evening when <span class="female">this <span class="adj">evil</span> queen</span> again addressed the steward.</p>
         <p><span class="quote"><q>I have a mind,</q></span> she said, <span class="quote"><q><span class="female">to eat the queen with the same sauce as you served with her children.</span></q></span></p>
         <p>This time the poor steward despaired of being able to practice another deception.
            The <span class="adj">young</span> queen was twenty years old, without counting the
            hundred years she had been asleep. <span class="female">Her skin, though <span class="adj">white and beautiful</span>, had become a little
               <span class="adj">tough</span>,</span> and what animal could he possibly find that would correspond to her? He made up his
            mind
            that if <span class="male">he would save his own life he must kill the queen</span>, and went upstairs to her apartment
            determined to do the deed once and for all. Goading himself into a rage he drew his
            knife and
            entered the <span class="adj">young</span> queen's chamber, but a reluctance to give her no moment of grace made him
            repeat <span class="adj">respectfully</span> the command which he had received from the queen mother.</p>
         <p><span class="quote"><q>Do it! do it!</q></span> she cried, baring her neck to him; <span class="quote"><q><span class="female">carry out the order you have been given! Then once more I shall
                     see my children, my poor children that I loved so much!</span></q></span></p>
         <p>Nothing had been said to her when the children were stolen away, and she believed
            them to be dead.</p>
         <p> The poor steward was <span class="adj">overcome by compassion</span>. <span class="quote"><q>No, no, Madam,</q></span> he declared.<span class="quote"><q>You shall not die, <span class="female">but you shall certainly see your
                     children again.</span> That will be in my quarters, where I have hidden them. I shall make the queen
                  eat a young hind in place of you, and thus trick her once more.</q></span></p>
         <p>Without more ado he led her to his quarters, and leaving her there to <span class="female">embrace and weep over her children</span>, proceeded to cook a
            hind with such art that the queen mother ate it for her supper with as much appetite
            as if it
            had indeed been the <span class="adj">young</span> queen.</p>
         <p> <span class="female">The queen mother felt well satisfied with her <span class="adj">cruel</span>deeds</span>, and
            planned to tell the king, on his return, <span class="female">that savage wolves had devoured his consort and his
               children. It was her habit, however, to <span class="adj">prowl</span> often about the courts and alleys of the mansion,
               in the hope of scenting raw meat,</span> and one evening she heard the little boy Day crying in a
            basement cellar. <span class="female">The child was weeping because his mother had threatened to whip him for some
               naughtiness,</span> and she heard at the same time <span class="female">the voice of Dawn begging forgiveness for her
               brother.</span></p>
         <p>The ogress recognized the voices of the queen and her children, <span class="female">and was enraged to find
               she had been tricked.</span> The next morning, in tones so affrighting that all trembled, she ordered a
            huge vat to be brought into the middle of the courtyard. <span class="female">This she filled with vipers and toads,
               with snakes and serpents of every kind, intending to cast into it the queen and her
               children,</span>
            and the steward with his wife and serving girl. By her command these were brought
            forward, with
            their hands tied behind their backs.</p>
         <p> There they were, and <span class="female">her <span class="adj">minions</span> were making ready to cast
               them into the vat,</span>when into the courtyard <span class="male">rode the king! Nobody had expected him so soon, but
               he had traveled posthaste. Filled with amazement, he demanded to know what this <span class="adj">horrible
                  spectacle</span> meant.</span></p>
         <p>None dared tell him, and at that moment <span class="female">the ogress, enraged at what confronted
               her, threw herself head foremost into the vat, and was devoured on the instant by
               the <span class="adj">hideous</span>
               creatures she had placed in it.</span></p>
         <p>The king could not but be sorry, for after all she was his
            mother; but it was not long before he found ample consolation in <span class="female">his beautiful wife and
               children.</span></p>
      </section>
   </body>
</html>