<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Grimm Brothers' Fairytales</title>
    
        <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="folklorecss.css" />
       
        <!--Would be nice if the top of the page was an image-->
    </head>
    
    <body>
        <h1>Women in Folklore</h1>
        <!--Would like to add an image beneath this-->
        
        <h2>Background</h2>
        <p>Throughout history, the gender roles of women have been predominantly enforced as submissive to their male counterparts. This arises in real-world structures and, similarily, in the art that is produced-- specifically, through literature. Whether explicitly or implicitly, the characterizations of women are meant to show female readers how they're "supposed" to behave. This is done through the innocence and purification of young, beautiful antagonists, while simultaneously villainizing older, more "rigid" women (who happen to be past the age of child-bearing). Folktales are a great source to examine how these stereotypical norms are presented to readers, as they are well-known stories that arise in a range of cultures.</p>
        
         <h3>Research Questions</h3>
        <p>Our group's goal is to analyze the ways women are shown to behave and the implications this has on real-world readers. We ask:</p>
        <ol>
            <li>How do cultural translations of folktales act as a lens on female roles in their respective societies?</li>
        </ol>
        
        <ul>
            <li>Are women depicted as autonomous or subdued? What is their societal role?</li>    
            <li>What are the different female stereotypes that are represented? Does this vary by age?</li>
            <li>What role do men in folktales play?</li>
            <li>How are relationships between women represented?</li>
            <li>What role do maternal and paternal figures play in these stories?</li>
        </ul>
        
        
        <h4>Methodologies</h4>
        <p>In order to perform our examination of these texts, each group member chose an renowned folktale from the German Grimm's Fairytale collection. These fairytales were itirations of traditional tales, which included: Snow White, Sleeping Beauty, Red Riding Hood, Rapunzel, and Beauty and the Beast. Working with these original translations, we marked up the documents in individual XML files. The goal in said markup was to examine the characteristics typically attributed to women (such as maternal nature, beauty, and naivity). We also wanted to examine how women were villainized, and how their autonomy differed from their male counterparts. Finally, we used our markup to focus on any mentions of female reproduction, whose attributes included: menstruation, childbirth, and sex.
            
            After examining the Grimm Brothers' retellings of these classic tales, we then found translations from languages, such as Charles Perrault's French retellings and Giambattista Basile's Italian retellings. We then examined the langauge differences between the Grimm Brothers' German tales, and the immediately aformentioned non-German ones. By using the same types of markup across various XML files, we were looking to examine the ways this langauge changed from culture-to-culture, and the implications that these changes suggested.
        
        Our schema consisted of five elements: characteristic, adjective, autonomy, villainization, and reproduction. The characteristic element was broken down into four attributes: char_type, depiction, age, and gender (the latter which was utilized by all five elements). These attributes helped specify if the characteristic in question was physical or nonphysical. Furthermore, the attribute "depiction" was divided into a myriad of overarching thematic categories we noted across the various works. These categories thus served as stereotypes attributed to female characters.
        
        The element adjective was gendered, with the intent being to determine if certain sentences or phrases held gendered implications or stereotypes.
        
        The autonomy element was designed to differentiate the depiction of male and female characters' free will. With this in mind, the characters could be "controlled" or "free" (part of the attribute auto_type), and their level of autonomy was specified by gender and social norms. More specifically, the attribute "level"'s names included: male_savior, damsel, evil, religious, societal_expectations, or heroin. With these attribute names, we wanted to differentiate the depiction of male or female autonomy not only according to their gender, but also to various religious and social norms/expectations.
        
       With the element villainization, we primarily wanted to examine the cause. These causes, we found, were typically gendered, with female characters being cast as the primary villains on the bases of competition, jealousy, revenge, sex, manipulation, and power.
        
       Finally, with element reproduction, we examined sentences and phrases that alluded to or specifically discussed menstruation, childbirth, or sex. With this element, we wanted to understand how female reproduction was utilized to stereotype, and diminish female characters.
        </p>
        <!--This is a ROUGH draft of what our methodologies could look like (I tried to add specificity). Please add any edits (it probably doesn't go into enough detail as is)-->
       
      
        <h5>Meet Our Team</h5>
        <table>
            <tr>
                <th></th>
            </tr>
            <tr>
                <td><strong>Ava</strong></td>
            </tr>
            <tr>
                <td><strong>Harper</strong></td>
            </tr>
            
            <tr>
                <td><strong>Briana</strong></td>
            </tr>

            <tr>
                <td><strong>Teagan</strong> is a junior studying history and English literature. She took this course as a general education requirement, and also wanted to learn more about efficiently researching multiple documents or historical works at once.</td>
            </tr>
 
            <tr>
                <td><strong>Vanessa</strong></td>
            </tr>
        </table>
        
        

        
    </body>
</html>