<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <title>redridinghood</title>
      <link href="../XSLT/xsltstyle.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
   </head>
   <body>
      <section>
         <h2>Jacob and Wilhelm Grimm</h2>
         <h2>Charles Perrault</h2>
      </section>
      <main>
         <div>
            <h3>Little Red-Cap</h3>
            <p>Once upon a time there was a <span class="innocent"><span class="class">dear
                     little</span> girl</span> who was <span class="physical">loved by every one who looked at her</span>, but most of
               all by her grandmother, and <span class="maternal">there was nothing that she would
                  not have given to the child</span>. Once she gave her a <span class="menstruation">little cap of red velvet</span>, which <span class="physical">suited her so
                  well</span>that she would
               never wear anything else; so she was always called “<span class="class">Little</span>
               Red-Cap.”</p>
            <p>One day her mother said to her, “Come, <span class="class">Little</span> Red-Cap, here is a piece
               of cake and a bottle of wine; <span class="controlled">take them to your grandmother</span>, <span class="old"><span class="controlled">
                     she is ill and
                     weak</span></span>, and they will do her good. Set out before it gets hot,
               and when you are going, <span class="innocent">
                  <span class="societal_expectations">walk nicely and quietly and do not run off the
                     path</span></span>, or you may fall and break the bottle, and then
               <span class="societal_expectations">your grandmother will get
                  nothing</span>; and
               when you go into her room, <span class="societal_expectations"> don’t forget to say,
                  ‘Good-morning,’</span> and don’t peep into every corner before you do it.”</p>
            <p><span class="quote"><q><span class="innocent">I will take great care,</span></q></span>
               said <span class="class">Little</span> Red-Cap to her mother, and gave her hand on it.</p>
            <p>The <span class="old">grandmother lived out in the wood, half a
                  league from the village</span>, and just as <span class="class">Little</span>
               Red-Cap entered the wood, a wolf met her. Red-Cap did not know what a <span class="class">wicked</span> creature he was, and
               <span class="naivity">was not at all afraid of him</span>.</p>
            <p><span class="quote"><q>Good-day, <span class="class">Little</span> Red-Cap,</q></span> said he.
               <span class="quote"><q><span class="innocent">Thank you kindly,
                        wolf.</span></q></span></p>
            <p><span class="quote"><q>Whither away so early, <span class="class">Little</span> Red-Cap?</q></span>
               <span class="quote"><q>To my grandmother’s.</q></span>
               <span class="quote"><q>What have you got in your apron?</q></span>
               <span class="quote"><q><span class="domesticity">Cake and wine; yesterday was
                        baking-day</span>, so <span class="class">poor sick</span> grandmother is to have
                     something good, to make her stronger.</q></span>
               <span class="quote"><q>Where does your grandmother live, <span class="class">Little</span> Red-Cap?</q></span></p>
            <p><span class="quote"><q><span class="naivity">A good quarter of a league farther on in the wood;
                        her house stands under the three large oak-trees, the nut-trees are just below; you
                        surely must know it,</span></q></span> replied <span class="class">Little</span>
               Red-Cap.</p>
            <p>The wolf thought to himself, <span class="quote"><q><span class="young">What a
                        <span class="class">tender young</span> creature! what a <span class="old"><span class="class">nice plump</span> mouthful—<span class="controlled">she will be better to eat</span> than the <span class="class">old</span>
                           woman</span></span>.
                     I must act craftily, so as to catch both.</q></span> So he walked for a short time by the
               side of <span class="class">Little</span> Red-Cap, and then he said, <span class="quote"><q>See
                     <span class="class">Little</span> Red-Cap, how pretty the flowers are about
                     here—why do you not look
                     round? I believe, too, that you do not hear how sweetly the little
                     birds are singing; you walk gravely along as if you were going to school, while
                     everything else out here in the wood is merry.</q></span></p>
            <p><span class="class">Little</span> Red-Cap raised her eyes, and when she saw the sunbeams dancing
               here and there through the trees, and pretty flowers growing everywhere, she thought,
               <span class="quote"><q><span class="innocent">Suppose I take grandmother a fresh
                        nosegay; that would please her too</span>. It is so early in the day that
                     I shall still get there in good time;</q></span> and <span class="innocent">so she ran from the path into the wood to look for flowers. And <span class="naivity">whenever she had picked one, she fancied that she saw a still
                     prettier one farther on, and ran after it, and so got deeper and deeper into the
                     wood.</span></span></p>
            <p>Meanwhile the wolf ran straight to the grandmother’s house and knocked at the door.</p>
            <p><span class="quote"><q>Who is there?</q></span></p>
            <p><span class="quote"><q>Little Red-Cap,</q></span> replied the wolf. <span class="quote"><q>She is bringing cake and wine; open
                     the door.</q></span></p>
            <p><span class="quote"><q>Lift the latch,</q></span> called out the grandmother, <span class="quote"><q><span class="old">
                        <span class="controlled">I am too <span class="class">weak</span>, and cannot
                           get
                           up.</span></span></q></span></p>
            <p>The wolf lifted the latch, the door flew open, and without
               saying a word he went straight to the grandmother’s bed, and devoured
               her. Then he put on her clothes,
               dressed himself in her cap, laid himself in bed and drew the
               curtains.</p>
            <p><span class="naivity">
                  <span class="innocent"><span class="class">Little</span> Red-Cap, however, had
                     been running about picking flowers, and when she had gathered so many that she could
                     carry no more, she remembered her grandmother, and set out on the way to
                     her.</span>
                  </span></p>
            <p>She was surprised to find the cottage-door standing open, and when she went into the
               room,
               she had such a <span class="class">strange</span> feeling that she said to herself, <span class="quote"><q>Oh
                     dear! how uneasy I feel to-day, and at other times <span class="maternal">I like being with grandmother so
                        much</span>.</q></span> She called out, <span class="quote"><q>Good
                     morning,</q></span> but received no answer; so she went to the bed and drew back the
               curtains. There lay her grandmother with her cap pulled far over her face, and looking
               very
               strange.</p>
            <p><span class="naivity"><span class="quote"><q>Oh! grandmother,</q></span> she said, <span class="quote"><q>what big
                        ears you have!</q></span>
                  <span class="quote"><q>The better to hear you with, my child,</q></span> was the reply. <span class="quote"><q>But,
                        grandmother, what big eyes you have!</q></span> she said. <span class="quote"><q>The better to see you
                        with, my dear.</q></span>
                  <span class="quote"><q>But, grandmother, what large hands you have!</q></span>
                  <span class="quote"><q>The better to hug you with.</q></span>
                  <span class="quote"><q>Oh! but, grandmother, what a terrible big mouth you have!</q></span>
                  <span class="quote"><q>The better to eat you with!</q></span></span></p>
            <p>And scarcely had the wolf said this, than with one bound he was
               out of bed and swallowed up Red-Cap.</p>
            <p><span class="male">When the wolf
                  had appeased his appetite, he lay down again in the bed, fell asleep and began to
                  snore very loud</span>. <span class="male_savior">The
                  huntsman was just passing the house, and thought to himself, <span class="quote"><q>How the old woman is
                        snoring! I must just see if she wants anything.</q></span></span> So he went into
               the room, and when he came to the bed, he saw that the wolf was lying in it.
               <span class="quote"><q><span class="religious">Do I find thee here, thou old
                        sinner!</span></q></span> said he. <span class="quote"><q>I have long sought thee!</q></span> Then
               <span class="male">just as he was going to fire at him, it
                  occurred to him that the wolf might have devoured the grandmother</span>, and
               that <span class="male_savior">she might still be saved</span>, so he did not fire,
               but <span class="childbirth">took a pair of scissors, and began to cut open the
                  stomach of the sleeping wolf. When he had made two snips, he saw the little Red-Cap
                  shining, and then he made two snips more, and the <span class="class">little girl</span>
                  sprang out</span>, crying, <span class="quote"><q><span class="childbirth"> Ah, how
                        frightened I have been! How dark it was inside the
                        wolf;</span></q></span> and <span class="sex">after that the <span class="class">aged grandmother</span> came out alive
                  also, but scarcely able to
                  breathe</span>.
               <span class="clever">Red-Cap, however, quickly fetched
                  <span class="class">great</span> stones with which they filled the wolf’s
                  body</span>, and when he awoke, he wanted to run away, but the stones were so
               heavy that he fell down at once, and fell dead.</p>
            <p>Then all three were delighted. The huntsman drew off the wolf’s skin and went home
               with it;
               the grandmother ate the cake and drank the wine which Red-Cap had brought, and revived,
               but
               Red-Cap thought to herself,
               <span class="quote"><q><span class="domesticity">
                        <span class="societal_expectations">As long as I live, I will never by myself
                           leave the path, to run into the wood, when my <span class="maternal">mother has forbidden me to do
                              so</span>.</span></span></q></span></p>
            <p>It
               is also related that once when Red-Cap was again taking cakes to the <span class="class">old
                  grandmother</span>, <span class="sex">another wolf spoke to her, and
                  tried to entice her from the path. <span class="clever"> Red-Cap, however,
                     was on her guard, and went straight forward on her
                     way</span>, and
                  told her grandmother that she had met the wolf, and that he had said
                  <span class="quote"><q>good-morning</q></span> to her, but with such a wicked look in his eyes, that
                  if they had not been on the public road she was
                  certain he would have eaten her up. <span class="quote"><q>Well,</q></span> said the
                  grandmother, <span class="quote"><q>we will shut the door, that he may not come
                        in.</q></span></span> Soon afterwards the wolf knocked, and cried,
               <span class="quote"><q>Open the door, grandmother, I am little Red-Cap, and am fetching you some
                     cakes.</q></span> But they did not speak, or open the door, so the grey-beard stole twice
               or thrice round the house, and at last jumped on
               the roof, intending to wait until Red-Cap went home in the evening, and then to steal
               after her and devour her in the darkness. But <span class="protective">the
                  grandmother saw what was in his thoughts</span>. In front of the house was a
               great stone trough, so she said to the child, <span class="quote"><q>Take the pail, Red-Cap; <span class="domesticity">I made some sausages yesterday</span>, so carry
                     the water in which I boiled them to the trough.</q></span> Red-Cap carried until the great
               trough was quite full. Then <span class="male">the smell of
                  the sausages reached the wolf, and he sniffed and peeped down, and at last stretched
                  out
                  his neck so far that he could no longer keep his footing and began to slip, and slipped
                  down from the roof straight into the great trough, and was
                  drowned</span>.
               But <span class="innocent">Red-Cap went joyously home, and never did anything
                  to harm any one</span>.</p>
         </div>
         <div>
            <h3>Little Red Riding Hood</h3>
            <p>Once upon a time there lived in a certain village a <span class="class">little country</span>
               girl, <span class="beauty">the <span class="class">prettiest</span> creature who
                  was ever seen</span>. <span class="maternal">Her mother was
                  <span class="class">excessively fond</span> of her; and her grandmother doted on her
                  still more</span>. <span class="menstruation">This <span class="class">good woman</span> had a little red riding hood
                  <span class="controlled">made for
                     her</span>.
                  It suited the girl so extremely well that everybody called her Little Red Riding
                  Hood.</span> One day her mother, <span class="domesticity">having
                  made some cakes</span>, said to her, <span class="quote"><q><span class="old"><span class="controlled">Go, my dear, and see how your grandmother is doing, for I
                           hear she has been very ill</span></span>. <span class="domesticity">Take her a cake, and this little pot of
                        butter</span>.</q></span></p>
            <p><span class="innocent">Little Red Riding Hood set out immediately to go to her
                  grandmother</span>, who <span class="old">lived in another village.</span></p>
            <p>As she was going through the wood, <span class="free">she met with a wolf</span>
               ,
               who had a very great mind to eat her
               up, but he dared not, because of some woodcutters working nearby in the
               forest.
               He asked her where she was going. The <span class="class">poor child</span>, <span class="innocent">who did not know that it was dangerous to stay and talk to a
                  wolf</span>, said to him, <span class="quote"><q>I am going to see my grandmother and carry
                     her a cake and a little pot of butter from my mother.</q></span></p>
            <p><span class="quote"><q>Does she live far off?</q></span> said the wolf</p>
            <p><span class="quote"><q>Oh I say,</q></span> answered <span class="class">Little</span> Red Riding Hood; <span class="quote"><q><span class="naivity">it is beyond that mill you see there, at the first house in the
                        village</span>.</q></span></p>
            <p><span class="quote"><q>Well,</q></span> said the wolf, <span class="quote"><q>and I'll go and see her too. <span class="free">I'll go this way and go you that,
                        and we shall see who will be there
                        first</span>.</q></span></p>
            <p><span class="male">The wolf ran as fast as he could, taking the
                  shortest path</span>, and the <span class="class">little girl</span> took a roundabout way,
               <span class="innocent">entertaining herself by <span class="domesticity">gathering nuts, running after butterflies, and gathering
                     bouquets of little
                     flowers</span></span>.
               It was not long before the wolf arrived at the <span class="class">old woman</span>'s house. He knocked at the door:
               tap, tap.</p>
            <p>
               <span class="quote"><q>Who's there?</q></span>
               </p>
            <p><span class="quote"><q>Your grandchild, Little Red Riding Hood,</q></span> replied the wolf, counterfeiting her voice; <span class="quote"><q>who has brought
                     you a cake and a little pot of butter sent you by mother.</q></span></p>
            <p>The <span class="class">good grandmother</span>, <span class="controlled">who was in
                  bed, because she was somewhat ill</span>, cried out, <span class="quote"><q>Pull the bobbin,
                     and the latch will go up.</q></span></p>
            <p>The wolf pulled the bobbin, and the door opened, and then <span class="controlled">he
                  immediately fell upon the good
                  woman
                  and ate her up in a moment, for it been more than three days
                  since he had eaten</span>. He then shut the
               door and got into the grandmother's bed, expecting Little Red Riding
               Hood, who came some time afterwards and knocked at the door: tap,
               tap.</p>
            <p>
               <span class="quote"><q>Who's there?</q></span>
               </p>
            <p>Little Red Riding Hood, <span class="innocent">hearing the <span class="class">big</span> voice of the
                  wolf, was at first afraid; but <span class="naivity">believing her
                     grandmother had a cold and was hoarse</span></span>, answered,
               <span class="quote"><q>It is your grandchild Little Red Riding Hood, who has brought you a cake and a
                     little pot of butter mother sends you.</q></span></p>
            <p>The wolf cried out to her, softening his voice as much as he could, <span class="quote"><q>Pull the bobbin,
                     and the latch will go up.</q></span></p>
            <p>Little Red Riding Hood pulled the bobbin, and the door opened.</p>
            <p>The wolf, seeing her come in, said to her, hiding himself under the bedclothes, <span class="quote"><q>Put
                     the cake and the little pot of butter upon the stool, and come get into bed with me.</q></span></p>
            <p>
               <span class="sex"><span class="free">Little Red Riding Hood took off her clothes and got into
                     bed</span>. She was greatly amazed to see how her grandmother looked in her
                  nightclothes, and said to her, <span class="quote"><q>Grandmother, what big arms you have!</q></span></span>
               
               </p>
            <p><span class="naivity"> <span class="quote"><q>All the better to hug you with, my dear.</q></span>
                  
                  <span class="quote"><q>Grandmother, what big legs you have!</q></span>
                  
                  <span class="quote"><q>All the better to run with, my child.</q></span>
                  
                  <span class="quote"><q>Grandmother, what big ears you have!</q></span>
                  
                  <span class="quote"><q>All the better to hear with, my child.</q></span>
                  
                  <span class="quote"><q>Grandmother, what big eyes you have!</q></span>
                  
                  <span class="quote"><q>All the better to see with, my child.</q></span>
                  
                  <span class="quote"><q>Grandmother, what big teeth you have got!</q></span>
                  
                  <span class="quote"><q>
                        All the better to eat you up
                        with.
                        </q></span></span></p>
            <p>And, saying these words, <span class="controlled">this <span class="class">wicked</span> wolf fell upon Little Red Riding Hood, and ate her all
                  up</span>.</p>
            <p>Moral: Children, <span class="beauty">especially
                  <span class="class">attractive</span>, <span class="class">well bred young</span>
                  ladies</span>, should never talk to strangers, for if they should do so, they
               may well provide dinner for a wolf. I say
               <span class="quote"><q>wolf,</q></span> but there are various kinds of wolves. There
               are also those who are <span class="class"> charming, quiet, polite, unassuming,
                  complacent, and sweet,</span> who pursue young women at home and in the streets.
               And unfortunately, it is these <span class="class">gentle</span> wolves who are the most
               dangerous ones of all.</p>
         </div>
      </main>
   </body>
</html>