<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <title>snowwhite</title>
      <link href="../XSLT/xsltstyle.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
   </head>
   <body>
      <ol>
         <h3>Navigation Bar</h3>
         <li><a href="folklore_index.xhtml">Home</a></li>
         <li><a href="methodologies.xhtml">Methodologies</a></li>
         <li><a href="texts.xhtml">Texts</a></li>
         <li><a href="analysis.xhtml">Analysis</a></li>
         <li><a href="folklore_histories.xhtml">The Histories</a></li>
      </ol><br/><h3>Nav Bar for Grimm and Original Fairytales (respectively)</h3>
      <ol>
         <li><a href="littlebriarrose.xhtml">Little Briar Rose (Sleeping Beauty)</a></li>
         <li><a href="rapunzel6.xhtml">Rapunzel</a></li>
         <li><a href="snowwhite_grimm.xhtml">Little Snow-White (Snow White)</a></li>
         <li><a href="singingsoaring.xhtml">The Singing Sprining Lark(Beauty and the Beast)</a></li>
         <li><a href="redridingfirst.xhtml">Little Red-Cap (Red Riding Hood)</a></li>
      </ol>
      <ol>
         <li><a href="thesleepingbeautyinthewood.xhtml">The Sleeping Beauty in the Wood (Sleeping Beauty)</a></li>
         <li><a href="petrosinella2.xhtml">Petrosinella (Rapunzel)</a></li>
         <li><a href="snowwhite_original.xhtml">The Young Slave (Snow White)</a></li>
         <li><a href="beautyandbeast.xhtml">Beauty and the Beast</a></li>
         <li><a href="redriding_frenchadaptation.xhtml">Little Red Riding Hood (Red Riding Hood)</a></li>
      </ol>
      <link href="xsltstyle.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/><script src="folklore_script.js"></script><h3>Toggable List of Elements and Attributes </h3>
      <ul id="mainList">
         <li><strong>Characteristic</strong></li>
         <div id="charSublist" class="sublist"></div>
         <ul>
            <li>Depiction</li>
            <ul>
               <li>Beauty</li>
               <li>Innocent</li>
               <li>Naivity</li>
               <li>Maternal</li>
               <li>Emotional</li>
               <li>Clever</li>
               <li>Secluded</li>
               <li>Protective</li>
               <li>Brave</li>
               <li>Domesticity</li>
            </ul>
            <li>Gender</li>
            <ul>
               <li>Female</li>
               <li>Male</li>
            </ul>
            <li>Age</li>
            <ul>
               <li>Young</li>
               <li>Old</li>
            </ul>
            <li>Char_type</li>
            <ul>
               <li>Physical</li>
               <li>Nonphysical</li>
            </ul>
         </ul>
         <li><strong>Autonomy</strong></li>
         <div id="autoSublist" class="sublist">
            <ul>
               <li>Auto_type</li>
               <ul>
                  <li>Controlled</li>
                  <li>Free</li>
               </ul>
               <li>Level</li>
               <ul>
                  <li>Male_savior</li>
                  <li>Damsel</li>
                  <li>Evil</li>
                  <li>Religious</li>
                  <li>Heroine</li>
                  <li>Societal_expectations</li>
               </ul>
               <li>Gender</li>
               <ul>
                  <li>Female</li>
                  <li>Male</li>
               </ul>
            </ul>
         </div>
         <li><strong>Villainization</strong></li>
         <div id="villSublist" class="sublist">
            <ul>
               <li>Cause</li>
               <ul>
                  <li>Competition</li>
                  <li>Jealousy</li>
                  <li>Revenge</li>
                  <li>Unspecified</li>
                  <li>Sex</li>
                  <li>Power</li>
                  <li>Manipulation</li>
               </ul>
               <li>Gender</li>
               <ul>
                  <li>Female</li>
                  <li>Male</li>
               </ul>
            </ul>
         </div>
         <li><strong>Reproduction</strong></li>
         <div id="repSublist" class="sublist">
            <ul>
               <li>Rep_type</li>
               <ul>
                  <li>Menstruation</li>
                  <li>Childbirth</li>
                  <li>Sex</li>
               </ul>
            </ul>
         </div>
         <li><strong>Adjective</strong></li>
         <div id="adjSublist" class="sublist">
            <ul>
               <li>Gender</li>
               <ul>
                  <li>Female</li>
                  <li>Male</li>
               </ul>
            </ul>
         </div>
      </ul>
      <section>
         <h2>Jacob and Wilhelm Grimm</h2>
         <h2>Giambattista Basile</h2>
      </section>
      <main>
         <div>
            <h3>Little Snow-white</h3>
            <p>Once upon a time in the middle of winter, when the flakes of snow were falling like
               feathers
               from the sky, a queen sat at a window sewing, and the frame of the window was made
               of black
               ebony. And whilst she was sewing and looking out of the window at the snow, <span class="childbirth"> she pricked her finger with the needle, and three drops of blood
                  fell upon the snow. </span> And the red looked pretty upon the white snow, and
               she thought to herself, <span class="quote"><q> Would that I had a <span class="physical"> child
                        as <span class="class"> white as snow, </span> as <span class="menstruation">red as blood, </span> and as black as the wood of
                        the window-frame. </span> </q></span> </p>
            <p>Soon after that she had a <span class="physical"> <span class="class">
                     little </span> daughter, who was as <span class="class"> white as
                     snow </span>, and as <span class="menstruation"> red as
                     blood </span>, and her hair was as black as ebony; </span> and she
               was therefore called <span class="class"> Little </span> Snow-white. And when the
               child was born, the Queen died.</p>
            <p>After a year had passed the King took to himself another wife. She was <span class="beauty"> a beautiful woman, but <span class="class"> proud and
                     haughty </span>, and she could not bear that anyone else should surpass her in
                  beauty. </span> She had a wonderful looking-glass, and when she stood in front
               of it and looked at herself in it, and said— 
               <span class="quote"><q>Looking-glass, Looking-glass, on the wall, Who in this land is the <span class="class"> fairest </span> of all? </q></span> the looking-glass answered—
               <span class="quote"><q> Thou, O Queen, art the fairest of all! </q></span>  Then she was
               satisfied, for she knew that the looking-glass spoke the truth.</p>
            <p><span class="beauty"> But Snow-white was growing up, and grew more and more
                  beautiful; and when she was seven years old she was as beautiful as the day, and
                  <span class="class"> more beautiful than the Queen
                     herself. </span> </span> And once when the Queen asked her
               looking-glass— 
               <span class="quote"><q> Looking-glass, Looking-glass, on the wall, Who in this land is the fairest of
                     all? </q></span> it answered— <span class="quote"><q> Thou art fairer than all who are here, Lady
                     Queen. <span class="beauty"> But more beautiful still is
                        Snow-white, </span> as I ween. </q></span> Then the Queen was shocked, and
               turned yellow and green with envy. From that hour, whenever she looked at Snow-white,
               her heart heaved in her breast, she <span class="class"> hated </span> the
               girl so much.  </p>
            <p> And <span class="class"> envy and pride </span>
               grew higher and higher in her heart like a weed, so that she had no peace day or night.
               She called a huntsman, and said, <span class="evil"> <span class="quote"><q> Take the child away into
                        the forest; I will no longer have her in my sight. Kill her, and bring me back
                        her heart as a token. </q></span> </span> 
               <span class="evil"> The huntsman obeyed, and took her away; </span> but when he had
               drawn his knife, and was about to pierce <span class="innocent"> Snow-white’s
                  <span class="class"> innocent </span> heart, </span> she began to
               weep, and said, <span class="quote"><q> <span class="female"> Ah dear
                        huntsman, leave me my life! I will run away into the wild forest, and never come
                        home again. </span> </q></span> </p>
            <p><span class="beauty"> And as she was so beautiful </span> the huntsman
               had <span class="class"> pity </span> on her and said, <span class="quote"><q> Run away, then, you
                     <span class="class"> poor child. </span> </q></span>
               <span class="quote"><q> <span class="female"> The wild beasts will soon
                        have devoured you, </span> </q></span> thought he, and yet it seemed as if a stone
               had been rolled from his heart since it was no longer needful for him to kill her.
               And as a
               young boar just then came running by he stabbed it, and cut out its heart and took
               it to the
               Queen as proof that the child was dead. The cook had to salt this, and  the wicked Queen ate it, and thought she had eaten the heart of
               Snow-white.  </p>
            <p><span class="damsel"> But now the <span class="class"> poor child </span> was
                  all alone in the great forest, and so <span class="class"> terrified </span>
                  that she looked at every leaf of every tree, and did not know what to do. Then she
                  began
                  to run, and ran over sharp stones and through thorns, </span> and the wild beasts ran
               past her, but did her no harm.</p>
            <p><span class="damsel"> She ran as long as her feet would go until it was almost
                  evening; </span> then she saw a little cottage and went into it to rest herself.
               Everything in the cottage was small, but neater and cleaner than can be told. There
               was a
               table on which was a white cover, and seven little plates, and on each plate a little
               spoon;
               moreover, there were seven little knives and forks, and seven little mugs. Against
               the wall
               stood seven little beds side by side, and covered with snow-white counterpanes.</p>
            <p><span class="damsel"> <span class="innocent"> <span class="class">
                        Little </span> Snow-white </span> was so hungry and thirsty that
                  she ate some vegetables and bread from each plate and drank a drop of wine out of
                  each
                  mug, for she did not wish to take all from one only. Then, as she was so tired, she
                  laid
                  herself down on one of the little beds, but none of them suited her; one was too long,
                  another too short, but at last she found that the seventh one was right, and so she
                  remained in it, said a prayer and went to sleep. </span> </p>
            <p>When it was quite dark the owners of the cottage came back; they were seven dwarfs
               who dug
               and delved in the mountains for ore. They lit their seven candles, and as it was now
               light
               within the cottage they saw that someone had been there, for everything was not in
               the same
               order in which they had left it.</p>
            <p>The first said, <span class="quote"><q> Who has been sitting on my chair? </q></span> The second, <span class="quote"><q> Who has
                     been eating off my plate? </q></span> The third, <span class="quote"><q> Who has been taking some of my
                     bread? </q></span> The fourth, <span class="quote"><q> Who has been eating my vegetables? </q></span> The fifth,
               <span class="quote"><q> Who has been using my fork? </q></span> The sixth, <span class="quote"><q> Who has been cutting with
                     my knife? </q></span> The seventh, <span class="quote"><q> Who has been drinking out of my mug? </q></span> </p>
            <p>Then the first looked round and saw that there was a <span class="class">
                  little </span> hole on his bed, and he said, <span class="quote"><q> Who has been getting into my
                     bed? </q></span> The others came up and each called out, <span class="quote"><q> Somebody has been lying in
                     my bed too.</q></span> But the seventh when he looked at his bed saw <span class="class"> little </span> Snow-white, who was lying asleep therein. And he
               called the others, who came running up, and they cried out with astonishment, and
               brought
               their seven little candles and let the light fall on <span class="innocent">
                  little Snow-white. </span> <span class="quote"><q> Oh, heavens! oh, heavens! </q></span> cried they, 
               <span class="quote"><q> <span class="young"> what a lovely child! </span> </q></span> and they were so 
               glad that they did not wake her up, but let her sleep on in the bed. And the seventh
               
               dwarf slept with his companions, one hour with each, and so got through the night.</p>
            <p>When it was morning <span class="innocent"> little Snow-white </span>
               awoke, and was frightened when she saw the seven dwarfs. But they were friendly and
               asked
               her what her name was. <span class="quote"><q> My name is Snow-white, </q></span> she answered. <span class="quote"><q> How have
                     you come to our house? </q></span> said the dwarfs. Then she told them that her step-mother
               had wished to have her killed, but that the huntsman had spared her life, and that
               she had
               run for the whole day, until at last she had found their dwelling. The dwarfs said,
               <span class="quote"><q> <span class="societal_expectations"> If you will take care of our house,
                        cook, make the beds, wash, sew, and knit, and if you will keep everything neat and
                        clean, you can stay with us and you shall want for nothing. </span> </q></span>
               <span class="quote"><q> Yes,</q></span> said Snow-white, <span class="quote"><q>with all my heart, </q></span> and she stayed with
               them. <span class="societal_expectations"> She kept the house in order for them; in the
                  mornings they went to the mountains and looked for copper and gold, in the evenings
                  they
                  came back, and then their supper had to be ready. </span> The girl was alone the
               whole day, so the good dwarfs warned her and said, <span class="quote"><q> Beware of your step-mother, she
                     will soon know that you are here; be sure to let no one come in. </q></span> </p>
            <p> But the Queen, believing that she had eaten Snow-white’s
               heart, could not but think that she was again the first and <span class="class">
                  most beautiful of all </span>; and she went to her looking-glass and said—
               <span class="quote"><q> Looking-glass, Looking-glass, on the wall, Who in this land is the <span class="class"> fairest of all? </span> </q></span> and the glass answered—
               <span class="quote"><q> Oh, Queen, thou art fairest of all I see, But over the hills, where the seven
                     dwarfs dwell, Snow-white is still alive and well, <span class="beauty">
                        And none is so <span class="class"> fair </span> as
                        she. </span> </q></span> Then she was astounded, for she knew that the
               looking-glass never spoke falsely, and she knew that the huntsman had betrayed her,
               and
               that <span class="innocent"> little Snow-white </span> was still
               alive.  </p>
            <p> And so she thought and thought again how she might kill her,
               for so long as she was not <span class="beauty"> the <span class="class"> fairest </span> in the whole land, </span> envy let
               her have no rest.  And when she had at last thought of something to do,
               <span class=""> she painted her face, and dressed herself like an <span class="class"> old </span> peddler-woman, </span> and no one could
               have known her. In this disguise she went over the seven mountains to the seven dwarfs,
               and
               knocked at the door and cried, <span class="quote"><q> Pretty things to sell, very cheap, very cheap. </q></span>
               <span class="innocent"> Little Snow-white </span> looked out of the
               window and called out, <span class="quote"><q> Good-day my good woman, what have you to sell? </q></span>
               <span class="quote"><q> Good things, pretty things,</q></span> she answered; <span class="quote"><q> stay-laces of all
                     colours,</q></span> and she pulled out one which was woven of bright-coloured silk.
               <span class="quote"><q> I may let the worthy <span class="old"> old woman
                        </span> in,</q></span> thought Snow-white, and she unbolted the door and bought
               the pretty laces. <span class="quote"><q> Child,</q></span> said the old woman, <span class="quote"><q> what a fright you look;
                     come, I will lace you properly for once. </q></span> Snow-white <span class="female"> had no suspicion, </span> but
               stood before her, and let herself be laced with the new laces. But the  old woman laced so quickly and so tightly that Snow-white lost her
               breath and fell down as if dead.  <span class="quote"><q> <span class="">Now I am the
                        most beautiful, </span> </q></span> said the Queen to herself, and ran
               away.</p>
            <p>Not long afterwards, in the evening, the seven dwarfs came home, but how shocked they
               were
               when they saw their <span class="innocent"> <span class="class"> dear
                     little </span> Snow-white</span> lying on the ground, and that she
               neither stirred nor moved, and seemed to be dead. They lifted her up, and, as they
               saw that
               she was laced too tightly, they cut the laces; then she began to breathe a little,
               and after
               a while came to life again. When the dwarfs heard what had happened they said, <span class="quote"><q> The
                     <span class="class"> old </span> peddler-woman was no one else than the
                     <span class="class"> wicked </span>
                     Queen:  take care and let no one come in when we are not with
                     you. </q></span> </p>
            <p> But the <span class="class"> wicked </span>
               woman when she had reached home went in front of the glass and asked—
               <span class="quote"><q> Looking-glass, Looking-glass, on the wall, Who in this land is the fairest of
                     all? </q></span> and it answered as before— <span class="quote"><q> Oh, Queen, thou art <span class="class"> fairest </span> of all I see, But over the hills, where the
                     seven dwarfs dwell, Snow-white is still alive and well, And <span class="beauty"> none is so <span class="class"> fair </span> as
                        she. </span> </q></span>  </p>
            <p>When she heard that, all her blood rushed to her heart with fear, for she saw plainly
               that
               <span class="innocent"> <span class="class"> little </span>
                  Snow-white </span> was again alive. <span class="quote"><q> But now,</q></span> she said,
               <span class="quote"><q>I will think of something that shall put an
                     end to you,  </q></span> and by the help of witchcraft, which she
               understood,  she made a poisonous comb.  Then she disguised
               herself and took the shape of another <span class="old"> old woman. </span>
               So she went over the seven mountains to the seven dwarfs, knocked at the door, and
               cried,
               <span class="quote"><q> Good things to sell, cheap, cheap! </q></span>
               <span class="innocent"> Little Snow-white </span> looked out and said,
               <span class="quote"><q> Go away; I cannot let any one come in. </q></span>
               <span class="quote"><q> I suppose you can look, </q></span> said the old woman, and pulled the poisonous comb out
               and held it up. It <span class="naivity"> pleased the girl so well that she let
                  herself be <span class="class"> beguiled, </span> </span> and opened
               the door. When they had made a bargain the <span class="class"> old </span> woman
               said, <span class="quote"><q> Now I will comb you properly for once. </q></span>
               <span class="innocent"> Poor little Snow-white </span> had no
               suspicion, and let the old woman do as she pleased, but hardly had  she put the comb in her hair than the poison in it took effect, and the
               girl fell down <span class="class"> senseless. </span> 
               <span class="quote"><q> <span class="beauty"> You paragon of beauty, </span> </q></span>
               said the  <span class="class"> wicked </span>
               woman,  <span class="quote"><q> you are done for now,” and she went away. </q></span> </p>
            <p>But fortunately it was almost evening, when the seven dwarfs came home. When they
               saw
               Snow-white lying as if dead upon the ground they at once suspected the step-mother,
               and they
               looked and found the poisoned comb. Scarcely had they taken it out when Snow-white
               came to
               herself, and told them what had happened. Then they warned her once more to be upon
               her
               guard and to open the door to no one.</p>
            <p> The Queen, at home, went in front of the glass and said—
               <span class="quote"><q> Looking-glass, Looking-glass, on the wall, Who in this land is <span class="class"> the fairest of all? </span> </q></span> then it answered as
               before— <span class="quote"><q> Oh, Queen, thou art <span class="class"> fairest </span> of all
                     I see, But over the hills, where the seven dwarfs dwell, Snow-white is still alive
                     and well, <span class="beauty"> And none is so <span class="class"> fair </span> as she. </span> </q></span> When she
               heard the glass speak thus she trembled and shook with rage. <span class="quote"><q> Snow-white shall
                     die, </q></span> she cried, <span class="quote"><q> even if it costs me my
                     life! </q></span>  </p>
            <p>Thereupon she went into a quite secret, lonely room, where no
               one ever came, and there she made a very poisonous apple. Outside it looked pretty,
               white with a red cheek, so that everyone who saw it longed for it; but whoever ate
               a
               piece of it must surely die.  </p>
            <p>When the apple was ready she painted her face, and <span class="physical">
                  dressed herself up as a country-woman, </span> and so she went over the seven
               mountains to the seven dwarfs. She knocked at the door. Snow-white put her head out
               of the
               window and said, <span class="quote"><q> I cannot let any one in; the seven dwarfs have forbidden me. </q></span>
               <span class="quote"><q>It is all the same to me,</q></span> answered the woman, <span class="quote"><q> I shall soon get rid of
                     my apples. There, I will give you one. </q></span> </p>
            <p><span class="quote"><q>No, </q></span> said Snow-white, <span class="quote"><q> I dare not take anything.</q></span>
               <span class="quote"><q> Are you afraid of poison? </q></span> said the <span class="class"> old </span>
               woman; <span class="quote"><q> look, I will cut the apple in two pieces; you eat the red cheek, and I will
                     eat the white. </q></span> The apple was so <span class="class"> cunningly </span>
               made that only the red cheek was poisoned. Snow-white longed for the fine apple, and
               when
               she saw that the woman ate part of it <span class="controlled"> she could resist no
                  longer, and stretched out her hand and took the poisonous half. </span> But hardly
               had she a bit of it in her mouth than she fell down dead.  Then the Queen looked at her with a dreadful look, and laughed
               aloud  and said, <span class="quote"><q> <span class="physical"> <span class="class"> White as snow, red as blood, black as
                           ebony-wood! </span> </span> this time the dwarfs cannot wake you up
                     again. </q></span> </p>
            <p> And when she asked of the Looking-glass at home—
               <span class="quote"><q> Looking-glass, Looking-glass, on the wall, Who in this land is the <span class="class"> fairest </span> of all? </q></span> it answered at last—
               <span class="quote"><q> Oh, Queen, in this land <span class="beauty"> thou art
                        <span class="class"> fairest </span> of
                        all. </span> </q></span> Then her <span class="class">
                  envious</span> heart had rest, so far as an envious heart can have
               rest.  </p>
            <p>The dwarfs, when they came home in the evening, found Snow-white lying upon the ground;
               she
               breathed no longer and was dead. They lifted her up, looked to see whether they could
               find
               anything poisonous, unlaced her, combed her hair, washed her with water and wine,
               but it was
               all of no use; the poor child was dead, and remained dead. They laid her upon a bier,
               and
               all seven of them sat round it and wept for her, and wept three days long.</p>
            <p>Then they were going to bury her, but she still looked as if she were living, and
               <span class="physical"> still had her <span class="class"> pretty red
                     cheeks. </span> </span> They said, <span class="quote"><q> We could not bury her in the
                     dark ground, </q></span> and they had a transparent coffin of glass made, <span class="damsel"> so that she could be seen from all sides, </span> and they laid her in
               it, and wrote her name upon it in golden letters, and that she was a king’s daughter.
               Then
               they put the coffin out upon the mountain, and one of them always stayed by it and
               watched
               it. And birds came too, and wept for Snow-white; first an owl, then a raven, and last
               a
               dove. </p>
            <p>And now Snow-white lay a long, long time in the coffin, and <span class="physical"> she did not change, but looked as if she were asleep; for she was
                  as <span class="class"> white as snow, as red as blood, and her hair was as black
                     as ebony. </span> </span> </p>
            <p>It happened, however, that a king’s son came into the forest, and went to the dwarfs’
               house
               to spend the night. He saw the coffin on the mountain, and the <span class="beauty"> <span class="class"> beautiful </span>
                  Snow-white </span> within it, and read what was written upon it in golden
               letters. Then he said to the dwarfs, <span class="male_savior"> <span class="quote"><q> Let me have the
                        coffin, I will give you whatever you want for it. </q></span> But the dwarfs answered,
                  <span class="quote"><q> We will not part with it for all the gold in the world.</q></span> Then he said,
                  <span class="quote"><q> Let me have it as a gift, for I cannot live without seeing Snow-white. I will
                        honour and prize <span class="female"> her
                           as my dearest possession. </span> </q></span> As he spoke in this way the good
                  dwarfs took pity upon him, and gave him the coffin. </span> </p>
            <p>And now the King’s son had it carried away by his servants on their shoulders. And
               it
               happened that they stumbled over a tree-stump, and with the shock the poisonous piece
               of
               apple which Snow-white had bitten off came out of her throat. And before long she
               opened her
               eyes, lifted up the lid of the coffin, sat up, and was once more alive. <span class="quote"><q> Oh, heavens,
                     where am I? </q></span> she cried. The King’s son, full of joy, said, <span class="male_savior"> <span class="quote"><q> You are with me, </q></span> and told her what had happened, and
                  said, <span class="quote"><q> I love you more than everything in the world; come with me to my father’s
                        palace, you shall be my wife. </q></span> </span> </p>
            <p><span class="societal_expectations"> And Snow-white was willing, and went with
                  him, </span> and their wedding was held with great show and splendour. But
               Snow-white’s <span class=""> <span class="class"> wicked </span>
                  step-mother </span> was also bidden to the feast.  When she had arrayed herself in beautiful clothes she went before
               the Looking-glass, and said— <span class="quote"><q> Looking-glass, Looking-glass, on the wall, Who in
                     this land is the <span class="class">fairest of all?</span></q></span> the
               glass answered— <span class="quote"><q> Oh, Queen, of all here the <span class="class">
                        fairest </span> art thou, But the <span class="beauty">
                        <span class="class"> young </span> Queen is <span class="class"> fairer </span> by far </span> as I
                     trow. </q></span>  </p>
            <p>Then the  <span class="class"> wicked </span>
               woman  uttered a curse, and was <span class="class"> so wretched,
                  so utterly wretched </span>, that she knew not what to do. At first she would not go
               to the wedding at all, but she had no peace, and must go to see the young Queen. And
               when
               she went in she knew Snow-white; and she stood still with 
               rage and fear, and could not stir. But iron slippers had already been put upon the
               fire, and they were brought in with tongs, and set before her. Then she was forced
               to
               put on the red-hot shoes, and dance until she dropped down dead.  </p>
         </div>
         <div>
            <h3>The Young Slave</h3>
            <p>In days of yore, and in times long gone before, there lived a baron of Serva-Scura,
               and he had a <span class="female"> young sister, a 
                  damsel of uncommon beauty, who often fared to the gardens in company of other <span class="class">
                     young </span> damsels of her age. </span> One day of the days they went as usual, 
               and beheld a <span class="sex"> rose-tree which had a beautiful fully opened rose upon it </span>, 
               and they agreed to wager that whosoever should jump clear above the tree without damaging
               the rose would win so much. Then the
               damsels began to jump one after the other, but none could clear the tree; till it
               coming to
               Cilia's turn (thus was the baron's sister hight), she took a little longer distance,
               and ran
               quickly, and jumped, and cleared the tree without touching the rose, and only a single
               leaf fell
               to the ground. <span class="female">
                  She quickly picked it up, and swallowed it before any of the others perceived aught,
                  </span> and thus won the wager.</p>
            <p> Three days had hardly passed, when she felt that she was with
               child, and finding that such was the case she nearly died with grief, well wotting
               that she had
               done naught to bring such a catastrophe upon her, and she could not suppose in any
               way how this
               had occurred. Therefore she ran to the house of some fairies, her friends, and relating
               to them
               her case, they told her that there was no doubt but that she was with child of the
               leaf she had
               swallowed.  </p>
            <p>Cilia hearing this hid her state as long as it was possible, but the time came at
               length for her delivery, and she gave birth secretly to a <span class="female">
                  beauteous woman-child, her face like a moon in her fourteenth night,
                  </span> and she named her Lisa, and sent her to the fairies to be brought
               up. Now each of the fairies gave to the child a charm; but 
               the last of them, wanting to run and see her, in so doing twisted the foot, and for
               the anguish of pain she 
               felt cursed her, saying that when she should reach her seventh year, her mother in
               combing her hair would forget the
               comb sticking in the hair on her head, and this would cause her to die.  And years went by till
               the time came, and the mishap took place, and the <span class="class"> wretched </span> mother was 
               in despair at this great misfortune, and after weeping and wailing, ordered seven
               crystal chests one within the other,
               and had her child put within them, and then the chest was laid in a distant chamber
               in the
               palace; and she kept the key in her pocket.</p>
            <p>But daily after this her health failed, her cark and
               care bringing her to the last step of her life; and when she felt her end drawing
               near, she sent
               for her brother, and said to him, <span class="quote"><q> O my brother, I feel death slowly and surely come upon me,
                     therefore I leave to thee all my belongings. Be thou the only lord and master; only
                     must thou
                     take a solemn oath that thou wilt never open the furtherest chamber in this palace,
                     of which I
                     consign to thee the key, which thou wilt keep within thy desk. </q></span> </p>
            <p>Her brother, who loved her
               dearly, gave her the required promise, and she bade him farewell and died.</p>
            <p>After a year had
               passed the baron took to himself a wife, and being one day invited to a hunt by some
               of his
               friends, he gave the palace in charge to his wife, begging her not to open the forbidden
               chamber, whose key was in his desk. 
               But no sooner had he left the palace than dire suspicion
               entered in her mind, and turned by jealousy, and fired by curiosity (the first dower
               of
               womankind), she took the key, and opened the door, and beheld the seven crystal chests,
               through
               which she could perceive <span class="female">
                  a beauteous child, </span> lying as it were in a deep sleep. And she had grown 
               as any other child of her age would, and the chests had lengthened with her.  </p>
            <p>The  jealous woman, 
               sighting this <span class="female">
                  charming creature, </span> cried, <span class="quote"><q> Bravo my priest; key in waistband, and ram within; this
                     is the reason why I was so earnestly begged not to open this door, so that I should
                     not behold
                     Mohammed, whom he worshippeth within these chests. </q></span></p>
            <p><span class="female">Thus saying, she pulled her out by the hair
                  of her head; and whilst so doing the comb which her mother had left on her head fell
                  off, and
                  she came again to life,</span> and cried out, <span class="quote"><q>O mother mine, O mother mine.</q></span></p>
            <p> Answered the
               baroness, <span class="quote"><q> I'll give thee mamma and papa; </q></span> and embittered as a slave, and an-angered as a bitch
               keeping watch on her young, and with poison full as an asp, she at once cut off the
               damsel's
               hair, and gave her a good drubbing, and arrayed her in rags. Every day she beat her
               on her head,
               and gave her black eyes, and scratched her face and made her mouth to bleed just as
               if she had
               eaten raw pigeons.  </p>
            <p>But when her husband came back and saw this child so badly treated, he asked
               the reason of such cruelty; and she answered that <span class="damsel"> she was a slave-girl sent her
                  by her aunt, so <span class="class"> wicked and perverse </span> that it was necessary to beat her so as 
                  to keep her in order. </span> </p>
            <p>After a time
               the baron had occasion to go to a country fair, and he, being a <span class="class"> very noble and kind-hearted
                  lord, </span> asked of all his household people from the highest to the lowest not leaving out
               even the
               cats, what thing they would like him to bring for them, and one bade him buy one thing,
               and
               another another, till at the last he came to the young slave-girl. </p>
            <p>But his wife did not act as a
               Christian should, and said, <span class="quote"><q> Put this slave in the dozen, and let us do all things within the
                     rule, as we all should like to make water in the same pot; leave her alone and let
                     us not fill
                     her with presumption.</q></span> But the lord, <span class="class"> being by nature kind </span>, 
               would ask the young slave what she should like him to bring her, and she replied,
               
               <span class="quote"><q> I should like to have a doll, a knife, and some pumice stone; and if thou 
                     shouldst forget it, mayst thou be unable to pass the river which will
                     be in thy way. </q></span> </p>
            <p>And the baron fared forth, and bought all the gifts he had promised to bring,
               but he forgot that which his niece had bade him bring; and when the lord on his way
               home came to
               the river, the river threw up stones, and carried away the trees from the mountain
               to the shore,
               and thus cast the basis of fear, and uplifted the wall of wonderment, so that it was
               impossible
               for the lord to pass that way; and <span class="male">
                  he at last remembered the curse of the young slave, and
                  turning back, bought her the three things, and then returned home, and gave to each
                  the gifts he
                  had brought. And he gave to Lisa also what pertained to her. </span> </p>
            <p>As soon as she had her gifts in her possession, she retired in the kitchen, and 
               <span class="damsel"> putting the doll before her, she began to <span class="class"> weep, and
                     wail, and lament, </span> telling that inanimate piece of wood the story of her travails, speaking as
                  she would have done to a living being; and perceiving that the doll answered not,
                  she took up
                  the knife and sharpening it on the pumice stone, said, <span class="quote"><q>
                        <span class="female"> If thou wilt not answer me, 
                           I shall kill myself, and thus will end the feast; </span> </q></span> </span> and the doll swelled up as a 
               bagpipe, and at last answered, <span class="quote"><q> Yes, I did hear thee, I am not deaf. </q></span> </p>
            <p>Now this went on for several days, till one day
               the baron, who had one of his portraits hung up near the kitchen, heard all this weeping
               and
               talking of the young slave-girl, and wanting to see to whom she spake, he put his
               eye to the
               keyhole, and beheld Lisa with the doll before her, to whom she related how her mother
               had jumped
               over the rose-tree, how she had swallowed the leaf, how herself had been born, how
               the fairies
               had each given her a charm, how the youngest fairy had cursed her, how the comb had
               been left on
               her head by her mother, how she had been put within seven crystal chests and shut
               up in a
               distant chamber, how her mother had died, and how she had left the key to her brother.
               Then she
               spoke of his going a-hunting, and the  wife's jealousy,  
               how she disobeyed her husband's behest  and entered within the chamber, 
               and how she had cut her hair, and how she treated her like a
               slave and beat her cruelly,  and she wept and lamented saying, <span class="quote"><q> Answer me, O my doll; if not, I
                     shall kill myself with this knife; </q></span> and sharpening it on the pumice stone, she was going to slay
               herself, when <span class="male"> the baron kicked down the door, and snatched 
                  the knife out of her hands, and bade her relate to him the story. </span> </p>
            <p>When she had ended, <span class="male"> he embraced her as his own niece, and led her
                  out of his palace to the house of a relative, where he commanded that she should be
                  well
                  entreated so that she should become </span><span class="physical"> cheerful in mind
                  and healthy of body, as owing to the ill treatment she had endured she had lost all
                  strength and 
                  healthful hue. </span> And Lisa, receiving kindly treatment, in a few months became as <span class="beauty">
                  beautiful as a goddess, </span> and her uncle sent for her to come to his palace, and gave a great banquet in her
               honour, and 
               <span class="male"> presented her to his guests
                  as his niece, and bade Lisa relate to them the story of her past troubles. </span> </p>
            <p>Hearing the cruelty
               with which she had been entreated by his wife, all the guests wept. And he bade his
               wife return
               to her family,  as for her jealousy and unseemly 
               behaviour  she was not <span class="class"> worthy </span> to be his mate; and
               <span class="female"> after a time gave to his niece a 
                  <span class="physical"> handsome and worthy husband </span> whom she loved; which touched the
                  level that: </span> </p>
            <p>When a man least goods of any kind expecteth, The heavens will pour upon him every
               grace.</p>
         </div>
      </main>
   </body>
</html>