<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <title>sleepingbeauty</title>
      <link href="FinalXSLTcss.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
      <link href="../indexcss.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
      <link type="text/javascript" scr="folklore_script.js"/>
   </head>
   <body>
      <h1>Navigation Bar</h1>
      <ol>
         <li><a href="../index.xhtml">Home</a></li>
         <li><a href="../Webpage/methodologies.xhtml">Methodologies</a></li>
         <li><a href="../Webpage/folklore_histories.xhtml">The Histories</a></li>
         <li><a href="../Webpage/texts.xhtml">Texts</a></li>
         <li><a href="../Webpage/analysis.xhtml">Analysis</a></li>
         <li><a href="../Webpage/conclusion.xhtml">Conclusion</a></li>
      </ol><br/><h3>Elemental Markup</h3>
      <table>
         <tr>
            <td>"Characteristic" -- orange underline</td>
         </tr>
         <tr>
            <td>"Autonomy" -- blue underline</td>
         </tr>
         <tr>
            <td>"Quote" -- coral underline</td>
         </tr>
         <tr>
            <td>"Villainization" -- green underline</td>
         </tr>
         <tr>
            <td>"Reproduction" -- purple underline</td>
         </tr>
         <tr>
            <td> "Adjective" -- gold underline</td>
         </tr>
      </table><br/><h3>Characteristic</h3>
      <table border="black">
         <tr>
            <td>"char_type" -- physical (orange), nonphysical (orangered)</td>
         </tr>
         <tr>
            <td>"depiction" -- naivity (violet), innocent (mistyrose), maternal (salmon), emotional
               (lightpink),
               clever (pink), secluded (mediumvioletred), protective (magenta), brave (deeppink),
               domesticity (fuschia), beauty (hotpink)</td>
         </tr>
      </table><br/><h3>Autonomy</h3>
      <table>
         <tr>
            <td>"auto_type" -- controlled (peachpuff), free (rosybrown)</td>
         </tr>
         <tr>
            <td>"level" -- male_savior (darkcyan), damsel (deepskyblue), evil (dodgerblue), religious
               (aqua), heroine (cornflowerblue),
               societal_expectations (royalblue)</td>
         </tr>
      </table><br/><h3>Villainization</h3>
      <table>
         <tr>
            <td>"cause" -- competition (darkolivegreen), jealousy (forestgreen), revenge (lightgreen),
               unspecified (olivedrab), sex (palegreen), manipulation (seagreen),
               power (springgreen)</td>
         </tr>
      </table><br/><h3>Reproduction</h3>
      <table>
         <tr>
            <td> "rep_type" -- menstruation (orchid), childbirth (purple), sex (plum)</td>
         </tr>
      </table><br/><h3>Applicable to Multiple</h3>
      <table>
         <tr>
            <td>"gender" -- female (paleturquoise), male (palegreen)</td>
         </tr>
         <tr>
            <td>"age" -- young (crimson), old (firebrick)</td>
         </tr>
      </table>
      <h3>Toggable List of Elements and Attributes </h3>
      <div class="stick"><strong>Characteristic:</strong><br/><p class="removespace"><strong>Depiction</strong></p><br/><input type="checkbox" value="depiction_beauty"/><span class="depiction_beauty">Beauty</span><br/><input type="checkbox" value="depiction_innocent"/><span class="depiction_">Innocent</span><br/><input type="checkbox" value="depiction_naivity"/><span class="depiction_naivity">Naivity</span><br/><input type="checkbox" value="depiction_maternal"/><span class="depiction_maternal">Maternal</span><br/><input type="checkbox" value="depiction_emotional"/><span class="depiction_emotional">Emotional</span><br/><input type="checkbox" value="depiction_clever"/><span class="depiction_clever">Clever</span><br/><input type="checkbox" value="depiction_secluded"/><span class="depiction_secluded">Secluded</span><br/><input type="checkbox" value="depiction_protective"/><span class="depiction_protective">Protective</span><br/><input type="checkbox" value="depiction_brave"/><span class="depiction_brave">Brave</span><br/><input type="checkbox" value="depiction_domesticity"/><span class="depiction_domesticity">Domesticity</span><br/><p class="removespace"><strong>Gender</strong></p><br/><input type="checkbox" value="chargender_female"/><span class="charggender_female">Female</span><br/><input type="checkbox" value="chargender_male"/><span class="chargender_male">Male</span><br/><p class="removespace"><strong>Age</strong></p><br/><input type="checkbox" value="age_young"/><span class="age_young">Young</span><br/><input type="checkbox" value="age_old"/><span class="age_old">Old</span><br/><p class="removespace"><strong>Char_type</strong></p><br/><input type="checkbox" value="chartype_physical"/><span class="chartype_physical">Physical</span><br/><input type="checkbox" value="chartype_nonphysical"/><span class="chartype_nonphysical">Nonphysical</span><strong>Autonomy:</strong><br/><p class="removespace"><strong>Auto_type</strong></p><br/><input type="checkbox" value="autotype_controlled"/><span class="autotype_controlled">Controlled</span><br/><input type="checkbox" value="autotype_free"/><span class="autotype_free">Free</span><br/><p class="removespace"><strong>Level</strong></p><br/><input type="checkbox" value="level_male_savior"/><span class="level_male_savior">Male_savior</span><br/><input type="checkbox" value="level_damsel"/><span class="level_damsel">Damsel</span><br/><input type="checkbox" value="level_evil"/><span class="level_evil">Evil</span><br/><input type="checkbox" value="level_religious"/><span class="level_religious">Religious</span><br/><input type="checkbox" value="level_heroine"/><span class="level_heroine">Heroine</span><br/><input type="checkbox" value="level_societal_expectations"/><span class="level_societal_expectations">Societal_expectations</span><br/><p class="removespace"><strong>Gender</strong></p><br/><input type="checkbox" value="autogender_female"/><span class="autogender_female">Female</span><br/><input type="checkbox" value="autogender_male"/><span class="autogender_male">Male</span><strong>Villainization:</strong><p class="removespace"><strong>Cause</strong></p><br/><input type="checkbox" value="cause_competition"/><span class="cause_competition">Competition</span><br/><input type="checkbox" value="cause_jealousy"/><span class="cause_jealousy">Jealousy</span><br/><input type="checkbox" value="cause_revenge"/><span class="cause_revenge">Revenge</span><br/><input type="checkbox" value="cause_unspecified"/><span class="cause_unspecified">Unspecified</span><br/><input type="checkbox" value="cause_sex"/><span class="cause_sex">Sex</span><br/><input type="checkbox" value="cause_power"/><span class="cause_power">Power</span><br/><input type="checkbox" value="cause_manipulation"/><span class="cause_manipulation">Manipulation</span><br/><p class="removespace"><strong>Gender</strong></p><br/><input type="checkbox" value="villgender_female"/><span class="villgender_female">Female</span><br/><input type="checkbox" value="villgender_male"/><span class="villgender_male">Male</span><strong>Reproduction:</strong><br/><p class="removespace"><strong>Rep_type</strong></p><br/><input type="checkbox" value="reptype_menstruation"/><span class="reptype_menstruation">Menstruation</span><br/><input type="checkbox" value="reptype_childbirth"/><span class="reptype_childbirth">Childbirth</span><br/><input type="checkbox" value="reptype_sex"/><span class="reptype_sex">Sex</span><strong>Adjective:</strong><br/><p class="removespace"><strong>Gender</strong></p><br/><input type="checkbox" value="adjgender_female"/><span class="adjgender_female">Female</span><br/><input type="checkbox" value="adjgender_male"/><span class="adjgender_male">Male</span></div>
      <section>
         <h2>Jacob and Wilhelm Grimm</h2>
         <h2>Charles Perrault</h2>
      </section>
      <main>
         <div>
            <h3>Little Briar Rose  (1812) </h3>
            <p>A long time ago there were a king and queen who said every day, ah, <span class="female">
                  <characteristic xmlns="" depiction="maternal" char_type="nonphysical" gender="female">if only we had a child, but they never had one</characteristic></span>.
               But it happened that once when the queen was bathing, a frog crept out of the water
               on to
               the land, and said to her, <span class="female">
                  <characteristic xmlns="" depiction="maternal" char_type="nonphysical" gender="female">your wish shall be
                     fulfilled, before a year has gone by, you shall have a daughter</characteristic></span>.</p>
            <p>What the frog had said came true, <span class="female">
                  <characteristic xmlns="" depiction="beauty" char_type="physical" gender="female">and the
                     queen had a little girl who was so pretty</characteristic></span> that the king could not
               contain himself for joy, and ordered a great feast. He invited not only his kindred,
               friends
               and acquaintances, <span class="female">
                  <characteristic xmlns="" depiction="innocent" char_type="nonphysical" gender="female">but also the 
                     <adjective gender="female">wise</adjective> women, in order that
                     they might be kind and well-disposed towards the child.</characteristic></span> There were
               thirteen of them in his kingdom, but, as he had only twelve golden plates for them
               to eat
               out of, one of them had to be left at home.</p>
            <p>The feast was held with all manner of splendor and when it came to an end the <span class="female">
                  <adjective xmlns="" gender="female">wise</adjective></span> women bestowed their magic gifts upon the baby -
               <span class="female">
                  <characteristic xmlns="" depiction="innocent" char_type="nonphysical" gender="female">one gave virtue</characteristic></span>, <span class="female">
                  <characteristic xmlns="" depiction="beauty" char_type="physical" gender="female">another beauty,</characteristic></span> a
               third riches,
               <span class="female">
                  <characteristic xmlns="" depiction="innocent" gender="female">and so on with everything in the world that one can wish
                     for.</characteristic></span></p>
            <p>When eleven of them had made their promises, suddenly the thirteenth came in. <span class="female">
                  <autonomy xmlns="" auto_type="free" level="evil" gender="female">
                     <villainization cause="revenge" gender="female">She wished to avenge herself for not having been invited,
                        and without greeting, or even looking at anyone, she cried with a loud
                        voice, the king's daughter shall in her fifteenth year </villainization>
                  </autonomy></span>, <span class="menstruation">
                  <reproduction xmlns="" rep_type="menstruation">the king's daughter shall in her fifteenth year prick herself
                     with a spindle, and fall down dead.</reproduction></span> And, without saying a word more, she turned round and
               left the room.</p>
            <p>They were all shocked, but the twelfth, whose good wish still remained unspoken, came
               forward, <span class="female">
                  <autonomy xmlns="" auto_type="free" level="heroine" gender="female">and as she could not undo the evil sentence, but only soften it</autonomy></span>, she said, it shall
               not be death, but a deep sleep of a hundred years, into which the princess shall fall.</p>
            <p>The king, who would fain keep his dear child from the misfortune, gave orders that
               every
               spindle in the whole kingdom should be burnt. <span class="female">
                  <characteristic xmlns="" depiction="innocent" char_type="nonphysical" age="young" gender="female">Meanwhile the gifts of the wise women were plenteously fulfilled on the young girl,
                     for
                     she was so 
                     <adjective gender="female">beautiful</adjective>, 
                     <adjective gender="female">modest</adjective>, 
                     <adjective gender="female">good-natured</adjective>, and 
                     <adjective gender="female">wise</adjective>, that everyone who saw her was
                     bound to love her.</characteristic></span></p>
            <p><span class="female">
                  <autonomy xmlns="" auto_type="free" level="damsel" gender="female">It happened that on the very day when she was fifteen years old, the king and queen
                     were not
                     at home, and the maiden was left in the palace quite alone. So she went round into
                     all sorts
                     of places, looked into rooms and bed-chambers just as she liked, and at last came
                     to an old
                     tower. She climbed up the narrow winding-staircase, and reached a little door. A rusty
                     key
                     was in the lock, and when she turned it the door sprang open, and there in a little
                     room sat
                     an old woman with a spindle, busily spinning her flax.</autonomy></span></p>
            <p>Good day, old mother, said the king's daughter, what are you doing there. <span class="female">
                  <autonomy xmlns="" auto_type="controlled" level="damsel" gender="female">I am spinning, said the old woman, and nodded her head.
                     
                     <characteristic depiction="naivity" char_type="nonphysical" age="young" gender="female"> What sort of thing is that, that rattles round so merrily, said the girl, and she
                        took
                        the spindle and wanted to spin too.</characteristic> But scarcely had she touched the spindle when the
                     magic decree was fulfilled, 
                     <reproduction rep_type="menstruation">and she pricked her finger with it</reproduction>. </autonomy></span></p>
            <p>And, in the very moment when <span class="menstruation">
                  <reproduction xmlns="" rep_type="menstruation">she felt the prick, she fell down upon the bed that stood there,
                     and lay in a deep sleep.</reproduction></span> And this sleep extended over the whole palace, the king and queen
               who had just come home, and had entered the great hall, began to go to sleep, and
               the whole
               of the court with them. The horses, too, went to sleep in the stable, the dogs in
               the yard,
               the pigeons upon the roof, the flies on the wall, even the fire that was flaming on
               the
               hearth became quiet and slept, the roast meat left off frizzling, and the cook, who
               was just
               going to pull the hair of the scullery boy, because he had forgotten something, let
               him go,
               and went to sleep. And the wind fell, and on the trees before the castle not a leaf
               moved
               again.</p>
            <p>But round about the castle there began to grow a hedge of thorns, which every year
               became
               higher, and at last grew close up round the castle and all over it, so that there
               was
               nothing of it to be seen, not even the flag upon the roof. <span class="female">
                  <characteristic xmlns="" depiction="beauty" char_type="physical" age="young" gender="female">But the story of the 
                     <adjective gender="female">beautiful</adjective> sleeping briar-rose, for so the princess
                     was named, went about the country, 
                     <autonomy auto_type="free" level="male_savior" gender="male">so that from time to time kings' sons came and tried
                        to get through the thorny hedge into the castle</autonomy>.</characteristic></span></p>
            <p>But they found it impossible, for the thorns held fast together, as if they had hands,
               and
               the youths were caught in them, could not get loose again, and died a miserable death.</p>
            <p>After long, long years a king's son came again to that country, and heard an <span class="male">
                  <adjective xmlns="" gender="male">old</adjective></span> man talking
               about the thorn-hedge, and that a castle was said to stand behind it in which a
               <span class="female">
                  <characteristic xmlns="" depiction="beauty" char_type="physical" age="young" gender="female">
                     <adjective gender="female">wonderfully beautiful</adjective> princess, named
                     briar-rose, had been asleep for a hundred years</characteristic></span>, and that the king and
               queen and the whole court were asleep likewise. He had heard, too, from his grandfather,
               <span class="male">
                  <autonomy xmlns="" auto_type="free" level="male_savior" gender="male">that many kings, sons had already come,
                     and had tried to get through the thorny hedge, but they had remained sticking fast
                     in
                     it, and had died a pitiful death.</autonomy></span></p>
            <p><span class="male">
                  <autonomy xmlns="" auto_type="free" level="male_savior" gender="male">Then the youth said, I am not afraid,</autonomy></span> <span class="female">
                  <characteristic xmlns="" depiction="beauty" char_type="physical" gender="female">I will
                     go and see the beautiful briar-rose.</characteristic></span> The good old man might dissuade
               him as he would, he did not listen to his words.</p>
            <p>But by this time the hundred years had just passed, and the day had come when briar-rose
               was
               to awake again. <span class="male">
                  <autonomy xmlns="" auto_type="controlled" level="male_savior" gender="male">When the king's son came
                     near to the thorn-hedge </autonomy></span>, it was nothing but <span class="female">
                  <autonomy xmlns="" auto_type="controlled" level="damsel" gender="female">large and beautiful flowers, which parted from each other of their own accord, and
                     let him pass unhurt, then they closed again behind him like a
                     hedge.</autonomy></span> In the castle yard he saw the horses and the spotted hounds lying
               asleep, on the roof sat the pigeons with their heads under their wings. And when he
               entered
               the house, the flies were asleep upon the wall, the cook in the kitchen was still
               holding
               out his hand to seize the boy, and the maid was sitting by the black hen which she
               was going
               to pluck.</p>
            <p>He went on farther, and in the great hall he saw the whole of the court lying asleep,
               and up
               by the throne lay the king and queen.</p>
            <p>Then he went on still farther, and all was so quiet that a breath could be heard,
               and at last
               he came to the tower, and opened the door into the little room where briar-rose was
               sleeping.</p>
            <p><span class="male">
                  <autonomy xmlns="" auto_type="free" level="male_savior" gender="male">
                     <characteristic depiction="beauty" char_type="physical" age="young" gender="female">There she lay, so beautiful that he could not
                        turn his eyes away, and he stooped down and gave her a kiss.</characteristic>But as soon
                     as he kissed her, 
                     <characteristic depiction="innocent" char_type="nonphysical" age="young" gender="female">briar-rose opened her eyes and awoke, and
                        looked at him quite 
                        <adjective gender="female">sweetly</adjective>
                     </characteristic>.</autonomy></span></p>
            <p>Then they went down together, and the king awoke, and the queen, and the whole court,
               and
               looked at each other in great astonishment. And the horses in the courtyard stood
               up and
               shook themselves, the hounds jumped up and wagged their tails, the pigeons upon the
               roof
               pulled out their heads from under their wings, looked round, and flew into the open
               country,
               the flies on the wall crept again, the fire in the kitchen burned up and flickered
               and
               cooked the meat, the joint began to turn and sizzle again, and the cook gave the boy
               such a
               box on the ear that he screamed, and the maid finished plucking the fowl.</p>
            <p>
               <span class="female">
                  <autonomy xmlns="" auto_type="controlled" level="societal_expectations" gender="female">And then the marriage of the king's son with
                     briar-rose was celebrated with all splendor, and they lived 
                     <adjective gender="female">contented</adjective> to the end of
                     their days.</autonomy></span>
               </p>
         </div>
         <div>
            <h3>The Sleeping Beauty in the Wood  (1697) </h3>
            <p>Once upon a time there <span class="female">
                  <characteristic xmlns="" depiction="maternal" char_type="nonphysical" gender="female">lived a king and queen who were grieved, more grieved than words can
                     tell, because they had no children</characteristic></span>. They tried the waters of every
               country, made vows and pilgrimages, and did everything that could be done, but without
               result. At last, however, <span class="female">
                  <characteristic xmlns="" depiction="maternal" char_type="nonphysical" gender="female">the queen found that her wishes were fulfilled, and in due course she
                     gave birth to a daughter.</characteristic></span></p>
            <p>A grand christening was held, and all the fairies that could be found in the realm
               (they
               numbered seven in all) were <span class="female">
                  <characteristic xmlns="" char_type="nonphysical" depiction="maternal" age="old" gender="female">invited to be godmothers to the little
                     princess</characteristic></span>. This was done so that by means of the gifts which each in
               turn would bestow upon her (in accordance with the fairy custom of those days)
               <span class="female">
                  <characteristic xmlns="" depiction="innocent" gender="female">the princess might be endowed with
                     every imaginable perfection</characteristic></span>.</p>
            <p>When the christening ceremony was over, all the company returned to the <span class="male">
                  <adjective xmlns="" gender="male">king's palace</adjective></span>, where a great banquet was held in honor of the
               fairies. Places were laid for them in magnificent style, and before each was placed
               a solid
               gold casket containing a spoon, fork, and knife of fine gold, set with diamonds and
               rubies.
               <span class="female">
                  <villainization xmlns="" cause="jealousy" gender="female">But just as all were sitting down to
                     table an aged fairy was seen to enter, whom no one had thought to
                     invite</villainization></span> -- the reason being that for more than fifty years she had never
               quitted the tower in which she lived, and <span class="female">
                  <villainization xmlns="" cause="unspecified" gender="female">people had supposed her to be dead or bewitched</villainization></span>.</p>
            <p>By the king's orders a place was laid for her, but it was impossible to give her a
               golden
               casket like the others, for only seven had been made for the seven fairies. <span class="female">
                  <villainization xmlns="" cause="jealousy" gender="female">The 
                     <adjective gender="female">old creature</adjective>
                     believed that she was intentionally slighted, and muttered threats between her
                     teeth.</villainization></span></p>
            <p>She was overheard by one of the <span class="female">
                  <adjective xmlns="" gender="female">young fairies</adjective></span>, who was
               seated nearby. The latter, guessing that some mischievous gift might be bestowed upon
               the
               little princess, hid behind the tapestry as soon as the company left the table.
               <span class="female">
                  <villainization xmlns="" cause="unspecified" gender="female">Her intention was to be the last to
                     speak, and so to have the power of counteracting, as far as possible, any evil which
                     the
                     
                     <adjective gender="female">old</adjective> fairy might do.</villainization></span></p>
            <p> Presently the fairies began to bestow their gifts upon the princess. The <span class="female">
                  <adjective xmlns="" gender="female">youngest ordained </adjective></span> that she should be the <span class="female">
                  <characteristic xmlns="" depiction="beauty" char_type="physical" gender="female">most 
                     <adjective gender="female">beautiful</adjective> person in the world</characteristic></span>; the next, that she
               should have <span class="female">
                  <characteristic xmlns="" depiction="innocent" char_type="nonphysical" gender="female">
                     the temper of an angel</characteristic></span>; the third, that she should <span class="female">
                  <characteristic xmlns="" depiction="innocent" char_type="nonphysical" gender="female">do everything with
                     wonderful grace</characteristic></span>; the fourth, that <span class="physical">
                  <characteristic xmlns="" depiction="beauty" char_type="physical">she should dance to perfection</characteristic></span>; the fifth,
               <span class="female">
                  <characteristic xmlns="" depiction="beauty" char_type="physical" gender="female">that she should
                     sing like a nightingale</characteristic></span>; and the sixth, that she should play every kind
               of music with the utmost skill.</p>
            <p>
               <span class="female">
                  <autonomy xmlns="" auto_type="free" level="evil" gender="female">It was now the turn of the
                     
                     <adjective gender="female">aged</adjective> fairy. Shaking her head, 
                     <villainization cause="revenge" gender="female">in token of spite rather than of
                        infirmity,</villainization> she declared that the princess should 
                     <reproduction rep_type="menstruation">prick her hand with a spindle</reproduction>, and die of it.
                     A shudder ran through the company at this 
                     <adjective gender="female">terrible</adjective> gift. All eyes were filled with tears.</autonomy></span>
               </p>
            <p>But at this moment the young fairy stepped forth from behind the tapestry.</p>
            <p><span class="quote"><q>Take comfort, your Majesties,</q></span> she cried in a loud voice. <span class="quote"><q>Your daughter
                     shall not die. <span class="female">
                        <villainization xmlns="" cause="unspecified" gender="female">My power, it is true,
                           is not enough to undo all that my aged kinswoman has decreed.</villainization></span> The
                     princess will indeed <span class="menstruation">
                        <reproduction xmlns="" rep_type="menstruation">prick her hand with a
                           spindle</reproduction></span>. But instead of dying she shall merely fall into a profound
                     slumber that will last a hundred years. <span class="female">
                        <autonomy xmlns="" auto_type="controlled" level="damsel" gender="female">At the end of that time a king's son shall come to awaken
                           her.</autonomy></span></q></span></p>
            <p>The king, in an attempt to <span class="male">
                  <autonomy xmlns="" auto_type="free" level="male_savior" gender="male">avert</autonomy></span> the unhappy doom pronounced by the old fairy, at once published an
               edict forbidding all persons, under pain of death, to use a spinning wheel or keep
               a spindle
               in the house.</p>
            <p><span class="female">
                  <characteristic xmlns="" char_type="nonphysical" gender="female" depiction="naivity" age="young">At
                     the end of fifteen or sixteen years the king and queen happened one day to be away,
                     on
                     pleasure bent. The princess was running about the castle, and going upstairs from
                     room
                     to room she came at length to a garret at the top of a tower, where an old serving
                     woman
                     sat alone with her distaff, spinning. This good woman had never heard speak of the
                     king's proclamation forbidding the use of spinning wheels</characteristic></span>.</p>
            <p><span class="quote"><q>What are you doing, my good woman?</q></span> asked the princess. </p>
            <p><span class="quote"><q>I am spinning, my <span class="female">
                        <adjective xmlns="" gender="female">pretty</adjective></span> child,</q></span> replied
               the dame, <span class="female">
                  <characteristic xmlns="" depiction="naivity" char_type="nonphysical" age="old" gender="female">not knowing who she was.</characteristic></span></p>
            <p><span class="quote"><q><span class="female">
                        <characteristic xmlns="" depiction="naivity" char_type="nonphysical" age="young" gender="female">"Oh, what fun!"</characteristic></span></q></span> rejoined the princess.
               <span class="quote"><q>How do you do it? Let me try and see if I can do it equally well.</q></span></p>
            <p>
               <span class="female">
                  <autonomy xmlns="" auto_type="free" level="damsel" gender="female">Partly because she was too
                     
                     <adjective gender="female">hasty</adjective>, partly because she was a little
                     
                     <adjective gender="female">heedless</adjective>, but also because the fairy decree
                     had ordained it, no sooner had she seized the spindle than she 
                     <reproduction rep_type="menstruation">pricked her hand and fell down in a
                        swoon.</reproduction>
                  </autonomy></span>
               </p>
            <p> In great alarm the <span class="female">
                  <adjective xmlns="" gender="female">good</adjective></span> dame cried out for help.
               People came running from every quarter to the princess. They threw water on her face,
               chafed
               her with their hands, and rubbed her temples with the royal essence of Hungary. But
               nothing
               would restore her.</p>
            <p>
               <span class="male">
                  <autonomy xmlns="" auto_type="free" level="male_savior" gender="male">Then the king, who had been
                     brought upstairs by the commotion, remembered the fairy prophecy.</autonomy></span> Feeling
               certain that what had happened was inevitable, since the fairies had decreed it, he
               gave
               orders that the princess should be placed in the finest apartment in the palace,
               <span class="female">
                  <characteristic xmlns="" depiction="beauty" char_type="physical" gender="female">upon a bed
                     embroidered in gold and silver.</characteristic></span></p>
            <p><span class="female">
                  <characteristic xmlns="" depiction="beauty" char_type="physical" age="young" gender="female">You would
                     have thought her an 
                     <adjective gender="female">angel</adjective>, so fair was she to
                     behold. The trance had not taken away the 
                     <adjective gender="female">lovely
                        color</adjective> of her complexion. Her cheeks were 
                     <adjective gender="female">delicately</adjective> flushed, her lips like coral.</characteristic></span> Her eyes,
               indeed, were closed, but her <span class="female">
                  <adjective xmlns="" gender="female">gentle</adjective></span> breathing could
               be heard, and it was therefore plain that she was not dead. <span class="male">
                  <autonomy xmlns="" auto_type="free" level="male_savior" gender="male">The king commanded</autonomy></span> that she should be left
               to sleep in peace <span class="female">
                  <autonomy xmlns="" auto_type="controlled" level="damsel" gender="female">until the
                     hour of her awakening should come.</autonomy></span></p>
            <p> When the accident happened to the princess, the <span class="female">
                  <adjective xmlns="" gender="female">good</adjective></span>
               fairy who had saved her life by condemning her to sleep a hundred years was in the
               kingdom
               of Mataquin, twelve thousand leagues away. She was instantly warned of it, however,
               by a
               little dwarf who had a pair of seven-league boots, which are boots that enable one
               to cover
               seven leagues at a single step. The fairy set off at once, and within an hour her
               chariot of
               fire, drawn by dragons, was seen approaching. </p>
            <p>The king handed her down from her chariot, and she approved of all that he had done.
               But
               being gifted with great powers of foresight, she bethought herself that when the princess
               came to be awakened, <span class="female">
                  <characteristic xmlns="" depiction="emotional" age="young" gender="female">
                     <autonomy auto_type="controlled" level="damsel" gender="female">she would be much
                        distressed to find herself all alone in the old castle.</autonomy>
                  </characteristic></span>
               And this is what she did.</p>
            <p><span class="female">
                  <autonomy xmlns="" auto_type="free" level="heroine" gender="female">She touched with her wand
                     everybody</autonomy></span> (except the king and queen) who was in the castle -- governesses,
               maids of honor, ladies-in-waiting, gentlemen, officers, stewards, cooks, scullions,
               errand
               boys, guards, porters, pages, footmen. She touched likewise all the horses in the
               stables,
               with their grooms, the big mastiffs in the courtyard, and little Puff, the pet dog
               of the
               princess, who was lying on the bed beside his mistress. The moment she had touched
               them they
               all fell asleep, to awaken only at the same moment as their mistress. <span class="female">
                  <autonomy xmlns="" auto_type="controlled" level="damsel" gender="female">Thus they would always be ready
                     with their service whenever she should require it.</autonomy></span> The very spits before the
               fire, loaded with partridges and pheasants, subsided into slumber, and the fire as
               well. All
               was done in a moment, for the fairies do not take long over their work.</p>
            <p>Then the king and queen kissed their <span class="female">
                  <adjective xmlns="" gender="female">dear</adjective></span> child,
               without waking her, and left the castle. Proclamations were issued, forbidding any
               approach
               to it, but these warnings were not needed, for within a quarter of an hour there grew
               up all
               round the park so vast a quantity of trees big and small,<span class="female">
                  <autonomy xmlns="" auto_type="free" level="evil" gender="female"> with interlacing brambles and thorns, that neither man nor
                     beast could penetrate them.</autonomy></span> The tops alone of the castle towers could be
               seen, and these only from a distance. Thus did the fairy's magic contrive that the
               princess,
               during all the time of her slumber, should have naught whatever to fear from prying
               eyes.</p>
            <p>At the end of a hundred years the throne had passed to another family from that of
               the
               sleeping princess. One day the king's son chanced to go a-hunting that way, and seeing
               in
               the distance some towers in the midst of a large and dense forest, he asked what they
               were.
               His attendants told him in reply the various stories which they had heard. Some said
               there
               was an old castle haunted by ghosts, others that all the witches of the neighborhood
               held
               their revels there. The favorite tale was that in the castle lived an ogre, who carried
               thither all the children whom he could catch. There he devoured them at his leisure,
               and
               since he was the only person who could force a passage through the wood nobody had
               been able
               to pursue him.</p>
            <p> While the prince was wondering what to believe, an old peasant took up the tale.
               </p>
            <p><span class="quote"><q>Your Highness,</q></span> said he, <span class="quote"><q>more than fifty years ago I heard my father say
                     that in this castle lies a princess, <span class="female">
                        <characteristic xmlns="" depiction="beauty" char_type="physical" age="young" gender="female">the 
                           <adjective gender="female">most
                              beautiful</adjective> that has ever been seen.</characteristic></span> It is her doom
                     to sleep there for a hundred years, and <span class="male">
                        <autonomy xmlns="" auto_type="free" level="male_savior" gender="male">then to be awakened by a king's son, for whose coming she
                           waits.</autonomy></span></q></span></p>
            <p>
               <span class="male">
                  <autonomy xmlns="" auto_type="free" level="male_savior" gender="male">This story 
                     <adjective gender="male">fired</adjective> the young prince. He jumped immediately to the
                     conclusion that it was for him to see so gay an adventure through, and 
                     <adjective gender="male">impelled</adjective> alike by the wish for love and glory, he
                     
                     <adjective gender="male">resolved</adjective> to set about it on the spot.
                     </autonomy></span>
               </p>
            <p> Hardly had he taken a step towards the wood when the tall trees, <span class="male">
                  <autonomy xmlns="" auto_type="free" level="male_savior" gender="male">the brambles and the thorns, separated of themselves
                     and made a path for him</autonomy></span>. He turned in the direction of the castle, and espied
               it at the end of a long avenue. This avenue he entered, and was surprised to notice
               that the
               trees closed up again as soon as he had passed, so that none of his retinue were able
               to
               follow him. <span class="male">
                  <autonomy xmlns="" auto_type="free" level="male_savior" gender="male">A young and
                     
                     <adjective gender="male">gallant</adjective> prince is always 
                     <adjective gender="male">brave</adjective>,</autonomy></span> however; so he continued on his way, and
               presently reached a large forecourt.</p>
            <p>The sight that now met his gaze was enough to fill him with an icy fear. The silence
               of the
               place was dreadful, and death seemed all about him. The recumbent figures of men and
               animals
               had all the appearance of being lifeless, until he perceived by the pimply noses and
               ruddy
               faces of the porters, that they merely slept. It was plain, too, from their glasses,
               in
               which were still some dregs of wine, that they had fallen asleep while drinking.</p>
            <p>The prince made his way into a great courtyard, paved with marble, and mounting the
               staircase
               entered the guardroom. Here the guards were lined up on either side in two ranks,
               their
               muskets on their shoulders, snoring their hardest. Through several apartments crowded
               with
               ladies and gentlemen in waiting, some seated, some standing, but all asleep, he pushed
               on,
               and so came at last to a chamber which was decked all over with gold. <span class="female">
                  <characteristic xmlns="" depiction="beauty" char_type="physical" age="young" gender="female">There he encountered
                     the most beautiful sight he had ever seen.</characteristic></span> Reclining upon a bed, the
               curtains of which on every side were drawn back, was <span class="female">
                  <characteristic xmlns="" depiction="beauty" char_type="physical" age="young" gender="female">a princess of seemingly some fifteen or
                     sixteen summers, whose 
                     <adjective gender="female">radiant beauty</adjective> had an
                     almost 
                     <adjective gender="female">unearthly</adjective> luster.</characteristic></span></p>
            <p><span class="female">
                  <characteristic xmlns="" depiction="beauty" char_type="physical" age="young" gender="female">Trembling
                     in his admiration he drew near and went on his knees beside her.</characteristic></span> At the
               same moment, <span class="female">
                  <autonomy xmlns="" auto_type="controlled" level="damsel" gender="female">the hour of
                     disenchantment having come, the princess awoke, and bestowed upon him a look more
                     
                     <adjective gender="female">tender</adjective> than a first glance might seem to
                     warrant.</autonomy></span></p>
            <p><span class="quote"><q>Is it you, dear prince?</q></span> she said. <span class="quote"><q><span class="female">
                        <autonomy xmlns="" auto_type="controlled" level="damsel" gender="female">You have been long in coming!</autonomy></span></q></span></p>
            <p><span class="female">
                  <characteristic xmlns="" depiction="innocent" age="young" gender="female">Charmed by these words, and
                     especially by the manner in which they were said, the prince scarcely knew how to
                     express his delight and gratification.</characteristic></span>
               <span class="male">
                  <autonomy xmlns="" auto_type="free" level="male_savior" gender="male">He declared that he loved her
                     better than he loved himself.</autonomy></span> His words were faltering, but they pleased the
               more for that. The less there is of eloquence, the more there is of love.</p>
            <p>Her embarrassment was less than his, and that is not to be wondered at, since she
               had had
               time to think of what she would say to him. It seems (although the story says nothing
               about
               it) <span class="female">
                  <characteristic xmlns="" depiction="naivity" age="young" gender="female">that the good fairy had
                     beguiled her long slumber with 
                     <adjective gender="female">pleasant</adjective>
                     dreams.</characteristic></span> To be brief, <span class="female">
                  <characteristic xmlns="" depiction="innocent" age="young" gender="female">after four hours of talking they had not succeeded in uttering one half
                     of the things they had to say to each other.</characteristic></span></p>
            <p> Now the whole palace had awakened with the princess. Everyone went about his business,
               and
               since they were not all in love they presently began to feel mortally hungry. The
               lady-in-waiting, who was suffering like the rest, at length lost patience, and in
               a loud
               voice called out to the princess that supper was served. </p>
            <p>The princess was already fully dressed, <span class="female">
                  <characteristic xmlns="" depiction="beauty" char_type="physical" age="young" gender="female">and in most 
                     <adjective gender="female">magnificent</adjective> style</characteristic></span>. <span class="female">
                  <autonomy xmlns="" auto_type="controlled" level="damsel" gender="female">As he helped her to rise,</autonomy></span> the prince refrained
               from telling her that her clothes, with the straight collar which she wore, were like
               those
               to which his grandmother had been accustomed. <span class="female">
                  <characteristic xmlns="" depiction="beauty" char_type="physical" age="young" gender="female">And in truth, they in no way detracted
                     from her beauty.</characteristic></span></p>
            <p>They passed into an apartment hung with mirrors, and were there served with supper
               by the
               stewards of the household, while the fiddles and oboes played some old music and played
               it
               remarkably well, considering they had not played at all for just upon a hundred years.
               A
               little later, when supper was over, <span class="female">
                  <autonomy xmlns="" auto_type="controlled" level="societal_expectations" gender="female">the chaplain married them in the castle
                     chapel</autonomy></span>, and in due course, attended by the courtiers in waiting, they retired
               to rest.</p>
            <p> They slept but little, however. The princess, indeed, had not much need of sleep,
               and as
               <span class="male">
                  <autonomy xmlns="" auto_type="free" level="male_savior" gender="male">soon as morning came the
                     prince took his leave of her.</autonomy></span> He returned to the city, and told his father,
               who was awaiting him with some anxiety, that he had lost himself while hunting in
               the
               forest, but had obtained some black bread and cheese from a charcoal burner, in whose
               hovel
               he had passed the night.</p>
            <p> His royal father, being of an easygoing nature, believed the tale, <span class="female">
                  <autonomy xmlns="" auto_type="free" level="evil" gender="female">but his mother was not so easily
                     hoodwinked.</autonomy></span> She noticed that he now went hunting every day, and that he
               always had an excuse handy when he had slept two or three nights from home. She felt
               certain, therefore, that he had some love affair.</p>
            <p><span class="female">
                  <characteristic xmlns="" depiction="maternal" gender="female">Two whole years passed since the
                     marriage of the prince and princess, and during that time they had two
                     children.</characteristic></span> The first, a daughter, was called Dawn, while the second, a
               boy, was named Day, <span class="male">
                  <characteristic xmlns="" depiction="beauty" char_type="physical" age="young" gender="male">because he seemed even more beautiful than his
                     sister.</characteristic></span></p>
            <p> Many a time the queen told her son that he ought to settle down in life. <span class="female">
                  <autonomy xmlns="" auto_type="free" level="evil" gender="female">She tried in this way to make him confide
                     in her</autonomy></span>, but he did not dare to trust her with his secret. Despite the
               affection which he bore her, <span class="female">
                  <villainization xmlns="" cause="jealousy" gender="female">
                     <autonomy auto_type="free" level="evil" gender="female">he was afraid of his mother, for she
                        came of a 
                        <adjective gender="female">race of
                           ogres,</adjective>
                     </autonomy>
                  </villainization></span>
               <span class="female">
                  <characteristic xmlns="" depiction="innocent" char_type="nonphysical" age="old" gender="female">and
                     the king had only married her for her wealth.</characteristic></span></p>
            <p>It was whispered at the court that she had <span class="female">
                  <villainization xmlns="" cause="unspecified" gender="female">
                     <adjective gender="female">ogreish
                        instincts</adjective>
                  </villainization></span>, <span class="female">
                  <villainization xmlns="" cause="jealousy" gender="female">
                     <autonomy auto_type="free" level="evil" gender="female">and that when little
                        children were near her she had the greatest difficulty in the world to keep herself
                        from 
                        <adjective gender="female">pouncing</adjective> on
                        them.</autonomy>
                  </villainization></span></p>
            <p> No wonder the prince was reluctant to say a word.</p>
            <p>But at the end of two years the king died, and the prince found himself on the throne.
               He
               then made public announcement of his marriage, and went in state to fetch his royal
               consort
               from her castle. With her two children beside her she made a <span class="female">
                  <adjective xmlns="" gender="female">triumphal entry</adjective></span> into the capital of her husband's realm.</p>
            <p>Some time afterwards the king declared war on his neighbor, the Emperor Cantalabutte.
               He
               appointed the queen mother as regent in his absence, <span class="female">
                  <characteristic xmlns="" depiction="maternal" age="old" gender="female">and entrusted his wife and children to her
                     care.</characteristic></span></p>
            <p>He expected to be away at the war for the whole of the summer, and as soon as he was
               gone the
               queen mother sent her daughter-in-law and the two children to a country mansion in
               the
               forest. This she did that she might be able the more easily to gratify her <span class="female">
                  <adjective xmlns="" gender="female">horrible longings</adjective></span>. A few days later she went there and in
               the evening summoned the chief steward.</p>
            <p><span class="quote"><q>For my dinner tomorrow,</q></span> she told him, <span class="quote"><q><span class="female">
                        <villainization xmlns="" cause="jealousy" gender="female">
                           <autonomy auto_type="free" level="evil" gender="female">I will eat
                              little Dawn.</autonomy>
                        </villainization></span></q></span></p>
            <p><span class="quote"><q>Oh, Madam!</q></span> exclaimed the steward. </p>
            <p><span class="quote"><q>That is my will,</q></span> said the queen; and <span class="female">
                  <villainization xmlns="" cause="jealousy" gender="female">
                     <autonomy auto_type="free" level="evil" gender="female">she spoke in the
                        
                        <adjective gender="female">tones of an ogre</adjective> who longs for raw
                        meat.</autonomy>
                  </villainization></span></p>
            <p><span class="quote"><q>You will serve her with piquant sauce,</q></span> she added.</p>
            <p>The <span class="male">
                  <adjective xmlns="" gender="male">poor</adjective></span> man, seeing plainly that it was <span class="male">
                  <autonomy xmlns="" auto_type="controlled" level="evil" gender="male">useless to trifle with an
                     ogress</autonomy></span>, took his big knife and went up to <span class="female">
                  <adjective xmlns="" gender="female">little</adjective></span> Dawn's chamber. She was at that time four years old, and when she
               came running <span class="female">
                  <characteristic xmlns="" depiction="innocent" age="young" gender="female">with a smile
                     to greet him, flinging her arms round his neck and 
                     <adjective gender="female">coaxing</adjective> him to give her some sweets</characteristic></span>, he burst into
               tears, and let the knife fall from his hand.</p>
            <p> Presently he went down to the yard behind the house, and slaughtered a young lamb.
               For this
               he made so delicious a sauce that his mistress declared she had never eaten anything
               so
               good.</p>
            <p>At the same time the steward carried <span class="female">
                  <adjective xmlns="" gender="female">little</adjective></span> Dawn to
               his wife, and bade the latter hide her in the quarters which they had below the yard.</p>
            <p> Eight days later <span class="female">
                  <villainization xmlns="" cause="jealousy" gender="female">
                     <autonomy auto_type="free" level="evil" gender="female">the 
                        <adjective gender="female">wicked</adjective>
                        queen</autonomy>
                  </villainization></span> summoned her steward again.</p>
            <p><span class="quote"><q>For my supper,</q></span> she announced, <span class="quote"><q><span class="female">
                        <villainization xmlns="" cause="jealousy" gender="female">
                           <autonomy auto_type="free" level="evil" gender="female">I will eat
                              
                              <adjective gender="male">little</adjective>
                              Day.</autonomy>
                        </villainization></span></q></span></p>
            <p> The steward made no answer, being determined to trick her as he had done previously.
               He went
               in search of little Day, whom he found with a tiny foil in his hand, making <span class="male">
                  <adjective xmlns="" gender="male">brave</adjective></span> passes -- though he was but three years old -- at a big
               monkey. <span class="female">
                  <characteristic xmlns="" depiction="maternal" age="old" gender="female">He carried him off to
                     his wife, who stowed him away in hiding with little Dawn.</characteristic></span> To the ogress
               the steward served up, in place of Day, a young kid so tender that she found it surpassingly
               delicious.</p>
            <p>So far, so good. But there came an evening when <span class="female">
                  <villainization xmlns="" cause="jealousy" gender="female">
                     <autonomy auto_type="free" level="evil" gender="female">this 
                        <adjective gender="female">evil</adjective> queen</autonomy>
                  </villainization></span> again
               addressed the steward.</p>
            <p><span class="quote"><q>I have a mind,</q></span> she said, <span class="quote"><q><span class="female">
                        <villainization xmlns="" cause="jealousy" gender="female">
                           <autonomy auto_type="free" level="evil" gender="female">to eat the
                              queen with the same sauce as you served with her
                              children.</autonomy>
                        </villainization></span></q></span></p>
            <p>This time the poor steward despaired of being able to practice another deception.
               The
               <span class="female">
                  <adjective xmlns="" gender="female">young</adjective></span> queen was twenty years old, without
               counting the hundred years she had been asleep. <span class="female">
                  <characteristic xmlns="" depiction="beauty" char_type="physical" age="young" gender="female">Her skin, though 
                     <adjective gender="female">white and beautiful</adjective>, had become a little 
                     <adjective gender="female">tough</adjective>,</characteristic></span> and what animal could he
               possibly find that would correspond to her? He made up his mind that if <span class="male">
                  <autonomy xmlns="" auto_type="free" level="evil" gender="male">he would save his own life he must kill the
                     queen</autonomy></span>, and went upstairs to her apartment determined to do the deed once and
               for all. Goading himself into a rage he drew his knife and entered the <span class="female">
                  <adjective xmlns="" gender="female">young</adjective></span> queen's chamber, but a reluctance to give her no
               moment of grace made him repeat <span class="male">
                  <adjective xmlns="" gender="male">respectfully</adjective></span> the
               command which he had received from the queen mother.</p>
            <p><span class="quote"><q>Do it! do it!</q></span> she cried, baring her neck to him; <span class="quote"><q><span class="female">
                        <characteristic xmlns="" depiction="maternal" gender="female">carry out the order you have been given! Then
                           once more I shall see my children, my poor children that I loved so
                           much!</characteristic></span></q></span></p>
            <p>Nothing had been said to her when the children were stolen away, and she believed
               them to be
               dead.</p>
            <p> The poor steward was <span class="male">
                  <adjective xmlns="" gender="male">overcome by compassion</adjective></span>. <span class="quote"><q>No,
                     no, Madam,</q></span> he declared.<span class="quote"><q>You shall not die, <span class="female">
                        <characteristic xmlns="" depiction="maternal" gender="female">but you shall certainly see your children
                           again.</characteristic></span> That will be in my quarters, where I have hidden them. I
                     shall make the queen eat a young hind in place of you, and thus trick her once
                     more.</q></span></p>
            <p>Without more ado he led her to his quarters, and leaving her there to <span class="female">
                  <characteristic xmlns="" depiction="maternal" gender="female">embrace and weep over her
                     children</characteristic></span>, proceeded to cook a hind with such art that the queen mother ate
               it for her supper with as much appetite as if it had indeed been the <span class="female">
                  <adjective xmlns="" gender="female">young</adjective></span> queen.</p>
            <p>
               <span class="female">
                  <villainization xmlns="" cause="unspecified" gender="female">
                     <autonomy auto_type="free" level="evil" gender="female">The queen mother felt well satisfied with her 
                        <adjective gender="female">cruel</adjective>deeds</autonomy>
                  </villainization></span>, and planned
               to tell the king, on his return, <span class="female">
                  <villainization xmlns="" cause="unspecified" gender="female">
                     <autonomy auto_type="free" level="evil" gender="female">that savage wolves had
                        devoured his consort and his children. It was her habit, however, to 
                        <adjective gender="female">prowl</adjective> often about the courts and alleys of the
                        mansion, in the hope of scenting raw meat,</autonomy>
                  </villainization></span> and one
               evening she heard the little boy Day crying in a basement cellar. <span class="female">
                  <characteristic xmlns="" depiction="maternal" gender="female">The child was weeping because his mother had
                     threatened to whip him for some naughtiness,</characteristic></span> and she heard at the same
               time <span class="female">
                  <characteristic xmlns="" depiction="innocent" age="young" gender="female">the voice of Dawn
                     begging forgiveness for her brother.</characteristic></span></p>
            <p><span class="female">
                  <villainization xmlns="" cause="unspecified" gender="female">The ogress recognized the voices of the
                     queen and her children, 
                     <autonomy auto_type="free" level="evil" gender="female">and was
                        enraged to find she had been tricked.</autonomy>
                  </villainization></span> The next morning,
               in tones so affrighting that all trembled, she ordered a huge vat to be brought into
               the
               middle of the courtyard. <span class="female">
                  <villainization xmlns="" cause="jealousy" gender="female">
                     <autonomy auto_type="free" level="evil" gender="female">This she filled with vipers and toads,
                        with snakes and serpents of every kind, intending to cast into it the queen and her
                        children,</autonomy>
                  </villainization></span> and the steward with his wife and serving
               girl. By her command these were brought forward, with their hands tied behind their
               backs.</p>
            <p> There they were, and <span class="female">
                  <villainization xmlns="" cause="jealousy" gender="female">
                     <autonomy auto_type="free" level="evil" gender="female">her 
                        <adjective gender="female">minions</adjective> were making ready to cast them into the
                        vat,</autonomy>
                  </villainization></span>when into the courtyard <span class="male">
                  <autonomy xmlns="" auto_type="free" level="male_savior" gender="male">rode the king! Nobody had expected him so soon, but he
                     had traveled posthaste. Filled with amazement, he demanded to know what this 
                     <adjective gender="female">horrible spectacle</adjective> meant.</autonomy></span></p>
            <p>None dared tell him, and at that moment <span class="female">
                  <villainization xmlns="" cause="jealousy" gender="female">
                     <autonomy auto_type="free" level="evil" gender="female">the ogress, enraged at what
                        confronted her, threw herself head foremost into the vat, and was devoured on the
                        instant by the 
                        <adjective gender="female">hideous</adjective> creatures she had
                        placed in it.</autonomy>
                  </villainization></span></p>
            <p>The king could not but be sorry, for after all she was his mother; but it was not
               long before
               he found ample consolation in <span class="female">
                  <characteristic xmlns="" depiction="beauty" char_type="physical" gender="female">his beautiful wife and children.</characteristic></span></p>
         </div>
      </main>
   </body>
</html>